I will share my story and the strategy that I followed to clear the coveted
Civil Services Exam in the first attempt.

First of all, let me tell you a bit about myself. Civil serv...


##########
I sincerely doubt whether such a dumb question is ever asked in the UPSC
interview. Is it not like asking a medical aspirant why he or she wants to
join the AIIMS for an MBBS course? Does one need to be extremely intelligent
and meritorious to give a decent answer to such a question?

The answer to a question as to why one wants to be an IAS officer, if at all
asked, is as inconsequential to your overall performance in the interview as
the question itself. Please don’t bother about such unimportant things about
the UPSC interview.

Even if you reply that you want to become an IAS officer to fulfill your
father or mother’s dream, it is not going to affect you in any negative way.
Is it wrong or unethical for a son or daughter to strive to fulfill his or her
parent’s noble wish? Being innocent and obedient at young age is not at all a
negative attribute in one’s personality.

If you think, based on the coaching industry’s wrong guidance, that the UPSC
expects every IAS aspirant to be a selfless social worker or a path-breaking
administrative genius, you are far from reality! Even higher civil servants
like the IAS and IPS officers have to work within the constraints of the
administrative system that rests on a set of several laws, rules and
regulations. Most civil servants are almost always concerned with policy
implementation at the state and district levels. Government needs intelligent,
well-informed and responsive persons who sincerely execute policies and
programmes for the welfare of the citizens in a fair manner. So, there is no
necessity for a civil service aspirant to pretend to be a future Mahatma
Gandhi or Mother Terasa in front of the UPSC interview board. The members on
the interview board themselves are no Mahatma Gandhis or Mother Terasas
either!

Young men and women aspire to join a higher civil service because it offers a
challenging career in government service with instant prominence, immense
respect and a decent salary. It gives them tremendous opportunities for direct
involvement in public affairs by holding responsible positions, relatively at
a much younger age in comparison to other services in government. Even a
layman knows why people want to become IAS and IPS officers. Is it so
important for the UPSC to bring this simple truth out of the mouth of every
candidate who is appearing for the personality test after qualifying in the
tough written exam?

To sum up, please don’t bother about such less important questions. Whatever
your answer, its contribution to your overall performance (marks) in the
interview will be quite insignificant. You can be absolutely honest in
answering such questions as long as your reason is not unethical or socially
unacceptable. Be thorough with issues that really matters such as current
events of national and global importance, your interests and educational
background, interesting aspects of your hometown, district and state and also
other places and institutions, if any, wherein you have studied or worked. Be
alert with excellent presence of mind during the entire interaction so that
you would be able to respond to questions with relevance, precision and a
balanced approach.

All the very best.


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
Very tough one.

I guess generally no two aspirants will give an exact same answer.

However generally answer can vary a lot like serving the nation, power and
prestige associated with the job, being in leadership position,variety of
assignments etc etc.

There is no tailor made answer which every aspirant can through up.

In my case i would answer that

Ias as a job i believe is best in india. As it provides opportunities to serve
in leadership and key positions in government. India is a developing and
welfare oriented nation, And ias are involved in formulation and
implementation of national policies, which gives an ias officer **ample
opportunity of problem solving, innovating, and bringing ideas to life**.

Moreover **proffessional growth in ias is rapid** , also ias officers being
generalists get a chance to serve in various departments of government, this
**variety of assignments** and rapid proffessional growth i believe are
necessrary for **high job satisfaction**.

Last but not the least the **prestige and pride associated with ias** also is
a reason why i want to join ias.


##########
You have reached the interview of upsc so you must have some reasons that’s
why you have came till here.you should simply state the fact what motivated
you to choose civil services as a career.

Everyone who prepares for this examination has some sort of thinking and
mindset about civil services or IAS.Tell this this to the interview panel very
clearly and in very straightforward manner.

Don't tell lies and cliche stuff like

  * I will remove corruption.
  * I will make India best of the best country.
  * Ias can give me power so i will make everything correct wherever i will be posted.
  * I will eradicate poverty.

See these statements are vague. You will get bashed in the interview if you
won't be able to put up the fact and give back your statement with logical
analysis.

So say meaningful things. Always be ready for follow up question.

It you don't know anything then simply say i don't know.

Saying irrelevant thing will lead one thing to other and you will end up with
bad interview experience.They are really smart folks.

Be simple nice genuine and speak clearly.Thanks for A2A.All the best.


##########
During UPSC CSE Interview aspirants are often asked the question that why they
want to join civil services and by asking this question interviewer tries to
judge your intentions towards yourself ,society and your nation.Generally the
aspirants who do finally qualify for the exam answer this question in various
like

1 ) I want direct interaction with society and want to help the needy ones.

2 )want to be the part of body which directly influence policy making.

3)want to do certain improvements in system & society using my innovative
thinking.

these are the most often given answers


##########
I don't know if this kind of questions are asked frequently. But for now ,
let's assume that you have been asked this question. If the panel has been
asking this question to the candidates who have interviewed before you, then
believe me it had already gone through the answers like I want to better serve
the country, I want to execute the government policies quickly that will help
the common people , i want to do social service…etc. I'm not saying that these
answers will have negative impact on the panel, but these won't have more
positive impact on the panel as well. If your answer is something that is not
unacceptable by the society even if it shows that you are really going to do
something for the common people, it will leave a negative impact on the panel.

So, in my opinion if you are asked this question, answer them honestly even if
you think that this answer is more about your betterment. Doing something that
is really uplifting one is not a bad act and believe me the panel will be
satisfied. Different people may have the different goals to get into this
service and so you should not think what others have answered to this
question. For your reference I’m telling you the answer given by an army
officer in the interview of NDA. When he was asked the same question, he said,
sir I want to achieve Paramveer Chakra award. Just imagine how much impact
this answer would have left in the minds of the panel! If your goal is
explicit, your success is almost confirm.

Let me know how many people think like this.


##########
**Why do you want to join a particular services?**

This question can be asked for any services.

The purpose of this question is to check the reasoning ability of a candidate.

Imagine your self an employer, you gave an advertisement for hiring and
somebody comes to you for job interview. Now if you ask the same question with
him and he answers like:

  * Sir, family told me to do so.
  * My friend were doing so me too.
  * Sir, I like to do this job, desperately.
  * Sir, I will work with full honesty.
  * Blah, Blah

Obviously you will be expecting something in his answer.

I hope you got the answer.


##########
i am a 14 year old i really want to be an ias officer since i was in forth
standard ,

now if someone asks me do i want to be an ias officer i would many personal
reasons to give:

like when i was around 9 years old i saw a huge fete or you could say a mela
type of thing happening food stalls around people enjoying themselves this
fete was organised as a part of durga pooja celebrations “ i too along with my
parents went there , where i saw a boy of somewhat 16 was eating a sandwich
kind of thing with his friends there too was a small poor girl , who was
really hungry and was watching the boys eat when she went towards them with a
hope that they will give her to eat she asked for food in the name of goddess
durga the boys simply said that she had no right to eat the kind of food they
are eating and that does even deserve to be here and that she is destroying
the purity of the function after seeing this out of curiosity i asked my
father if there is too much food here a lot even is getting wasted why dont
someone give her the food to eat and maa durga too loves her deevotees so why
doesnt she give something to eat? he said, “child there are loads of money
people are investing to this no not for maa durga but for buissness for money
and too in our country there are huge barriers of differences between rich and
the poor and too people who say they say they want to change the the country
extinguish poverty are only faking it for money purposes our country needs
honest individuals who really want to change our country and who dont run
after money and if you wish you too could change it by putting efforts” by
this my father sowed a seed of dreams in me to change the country , for that
little girl, for those big buissness men who are greedy and selfish ,for my
father who has hope that are country would change..

until then walking on the path towards my goal and at the end “jai hind!!!”


##########
This answer may not fit everyone but helps u to have some idea how u should
answer

As an aspirant ur answer should be specific which is connected to ur life

Ur answer should be humble enough to make the interview think that u are an
apt person for this job to handle challenges.

Don't answer in the way putting ur emotions over reasoning in the act of
choosing ur career.

Don't cook stories. They can easily find it out.

Nothing like am poor so I faced such and such discriminations.

Mostly if u ask urself u will surely get an exceptional answer which is truly
out of ur instinct. The above mentioned are just guidance.


##########
