**First**

 **Scenario: A panel of three interviewers siting in an interview room. With a
chair empty on the other side of table.**

A candidate enters the room sits on the assigned place.

Interviewer (I) candidate (c)

Interviewer after few questions

I- Imagine there is a glass of water in front you. Lift it without touching
it.

C- Sir I can't see any glass of water in front of me.(very calmly)

I- We three interviewers can see it why can't you.

C- Sorry sir but I really can't see it.(very calmly)

I- (bit frustrated) Are you blind?? When three of us can see it why the hell
you can't....

C- Calmly again.. Sorry sir.. Believe me I can't see any glass of water.

I- (The frustrated interviewer tries to act like holding the glass of water
and lifting it says)  
Can't you see this glass of water and starts to laugh with other two
interviewers.

C- Sir The glass of water is lifted without me touching it. Thank you.

 **Second Instance**

Interviewer: You play flute, can I assume that you admire Lord Krishna?

ME: Yes sir, I do.

Interviewer: So given a chance, whom will you select as your business leader
in today’s world? Lord Krishna or Lord Ram?

ME: Obviously Krishna.

Interviewer: Why not Ram?

ME: You asked for an ideal leader in today’s world, not a perfect husband.

Interviewer: Gave a smile.

 **Third’s the Charm (Loved it that’s why putting it)**

*** ** _Sell this bottle of alcohol followed by the shortest salary
negotiation_** ***

 **Interviewer-** Can you sell this bottle of alcohol thrice the price?

Neal- Do you drink?

 **Interviewer-** No, I don’t.

Neal- Then why don’t you taste it today?

 **Interviewer-** Alcohol is bad for health.

Neal- Who told that? Science has proven alcohol can lengthen your life. It can
even keep you warm in this cold.

 **Interviewer-** I don’t think so. Prove me wrong. I will select you right
now..!

Neal- Moderate alcohol consumption works as medicine.

 **Interviewer-** People are dying due to alcohol.

Neal- People are dying because of “Drink and drive”. Not because of alcohol.
I’m the living proof of that.

 **Interviewer-** Okay!

Neal- It also fight gallstone and lowers the chance of diabetes. One bottle
can’t make you dead. You must try once in a life time.

 **Interviewer-** Okay. How much?

Neal- 6000.

 **Interviewer-** What? You are just telling double the normal price.

Neal- We have made this specially for the people who drinks for the first
time. You will remain stable after drinking.

 **Interviewer-** Still, if something happens to me?

Neal- We have an 50 lakh insurance plan for you just for 3000 more.

 **Interviewer-** [Laughs] Great job. You are the right candidate for our
sales team.

 **How much salary do you expect?**

 **Neal-** Nothing now. I want you to taste me like that bottle of alcohol.
After a month we will decide.

 _[Neal’s priority is to get selected first. Not the salary.]_

 **If I perform, give me the best salary. If I don’t, you can fire me.**

 _[Showed confidence as Neal already knows no body fires their employee after
1 month of training. Trained employees are assets.]_

*** ** _Selected_** ***

 **Fourth**

 **Interviewer:** Suppose we switch places, you become the interviewer and I
become the applicant what question will you ask me?

 **Applicant:** Suppose we switch places, you become the interviewer and I
become the applicant what question will you ask me?

 **Interviewer:** *stunned by the answer*

 **Result: Guess!!!**

Upvote and Share!!

 **Source:**[ **Quora**](/) ****[**Yahoo**](http://yahoo.com)


##########
A perfect interview candidate always dresses up sophisticated, greets warmly,
performs every single boot licking task to try and impress his interviewer.
But suddenly it happens, when an irrelevant question, which may not even
relate to your prospective job profile, ruins your whole game. The small and
tricky puzzles asked in interview helps the interviewer in judging candidate’s
presence of mind, decision making skills, problem solving abilities,
creativity and various other traits. It is never meant to make the candidate
feel dumb about him, but it certainly reflects an overall thinking pattern of
the candidate and how dynamically he/she can approach towards a particular
challenge.

Normally Interview puzzles usually doesn’t have a pattern, but the question
itself lineup a clue towards the answer. That is why, it is always recommended
to read the question thrice before leaping towards its answer.

Here by are a few baffling **_samples of interview puzzles_** that may tingle
your brain buds:

 **1.** [**The Burning Candle’s
Puzzle**](http://www.puzzlevilla.com/interview-puzzles/puzzle/186)

Welcome to the Medieval Age, where people calculate time by just using candles
and a lighter, instead of a watch. So here you are provided with 2 equal sized
candles with its burning time of one hour each. Now by lighting these 2
candles you have to calculate 90 minutes precisely. Feel free to elaborate
your answers.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-e4eb0db7f6e98d5168e763b0dc23d988-c)

 **2.** [**Meena’s Father is Arun
Puzzle**](http://www.puzzlevilla.com/interview-puzzles/ias-interview-
puzzles/puzzle/77)

Here Meena is a beautiful 16 year old girl, whose father is Arun.

So the question is if Meena’s father is Arun. Then Arun is the ______ of
Meena’s father.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-8277f7430b0c745b1abfc88bd72da031-c)

 **3.** [**Couple Went For Picnic
Puzzle**](http://www.puzzlevilla.com/interview-puzzles/puzzle/47)

An old Indian couple went for a picnic at a beautiful park. They have a huge
overpopulated family, which includes 5 sons and each son has 7 sisters and
each sister has 3 babies. So now please tell us in total, how many people went
for the picnic? Please don’t touch your calculators.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-ac3b7f9f69026f09d31ae12f6313c2cd-c)

 **4.** [**Fill The Boxes Puzzle**](http://www.puzzlevilla.com/interview-
puzzles/ias-interview-puzzles/puzzle/76)

Get ready to scratch you math nerve and solve this query

[] + [ ] + [ ] = 30

You can fill the brackets with the following numbers, with a liberty of
repeating a single number several times. (1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15)

 **5.** [**IAS Tricky Interview
Puzzle**](http://www.puzzlevilla.com/interview-puzzles/ias-interview-
puzzles/puzzle/107) **(An Actual Incident)**

This one is just more than a puzzle, which really tested the candidate’s
spontaneous instinct. Here, the interviewer said that this would be his last
question to the candidate (Rohan) and then asked Rohan to point exactly at the
center of the table, where his resume was kept. He gave the answer and was
also shortlisted for his dream designation. Can you guess what it could be?


##########
I remember 2 of them:

  1. 1st job interview with a Strategic Consulting firm in London; and they had asked me - “ **You have 30 mins. Show us how many hamsters are there in the U.K.?** ” The Senior Partner and a Senior Business Analyst (BA) left the room after that - I cursed myself! Cause both the Partner (an Englishman) and the BA (a Sri Lankan guy) were from Cambridge; and I had introduced myself saying, “ _Good morning, I'm Subhasish; I took the morning shuttle from Oxford_ ”. Was sure they set me up for this given the bad blood between the 2 unis. Well, there’s no right or wrong for this; I took 30 mins, came to an approximate calculation by calculating how much land mass we have in the UK, assuming a percentage of that to be woodlands and cities; and then assuming in the woodlands per sq. feet how many hamsters could live; and assuming a percentage of them to be male and remaining female; and then female giving birth; and then assuming a percentage of that died on birth or infancy; and how many survived. In fact, it was coming like around 2Million something; and the Partner of the firm who interviewed me in fact called a BA from one of the other floors; and to my surprise he said - _I have calculated; ought to be around 2.5M_. My exact expression (in my mind was) - _You kidding me, right? Now we’re gonna sit here and debate & do mathematical justification on how many hamsters are in the U.K.? _Anyways, I got the job; but didn’t join. Took another one instead.
  2. 2nd job interview, was not going well. It was a Financial Consulting firm; in fact, I knew nothing about Finance. Anyways, couldn’t answer pretty much everything; till the CEO walked in. I was till then interviewing with the panel which mainly constituted of VP - Mutual Funds and CFO and so on. Anyways, the CEO took a look at me and said - “What do you love the most?” I said - Love reading books and love playing cricket (I didn’t play 1st class in England, but represented 1st & 2nd XI in Cuppers and OUICCL matches etc.). This is how it went -

 **Him** \- Reading? Eh! What’s the latest you have read?

 **Myself** \- I love reading lots of them. But my favorite is - “Crime &
Punishment” by Fyodor Dostoevsky; having lived in Moscow during my undergrad,
I loved Russian Literature.

 **Him** \- What’s the best thing you remember from this book?

 **Myself** \- I remember a quote which defined the Napoleonic theory of Life.
Raskolnikov believed in it very strongly. The exact lines are - “Power is only
vouchsafed to the man who dares to stoop and pick it up. There’s only one
thing needful and it is simply to dare and send your luck flying to the
devil”. _(I remember having said all of this in one breath)_

 **Him** \- This interview is over. Sort out your remuneration, join tomorrow!

I joined.

 _PS_ : Later of course I came to know he was Eton+Oxford; probably one of the
most Royal combinations on Earth and belonged to a 450-year old Royal family
based in Cheltenham and his dad and one of his uncles were based in Calcutta
(which is my native town) during WW2. For those unaware of WW2, Calcutta was
the last British stronghold in East of Asia after both Singapore and Rangoon
fell to the Japs.


##########
**How will you move Mount Fuji from Japan to England?**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-e1ea8d2224fc4622151ff7d2277f6977)

I was being interviewed for the position of Software developer in one of the
most prestigious MNC.

I'd already cleared all previous rounds of interviews before that, which
included a practical test, 2 technical rounds and a round of management
skills.

I did well in all of them, and was confident of getting the job.

Next day, I was expecting a confirmation call from HR, however when she
called, instead of confirmation she asked me to come over for another round of
interview, this time with their client.

I was frustrated with long selection process, but decided to go for one last
time. I had no idea what questions client would ask. I was never interviwed by
client before. I didn't know if client wanted to test my technical skills,
management skills or communication skills.

So in a state of confusion, I went for this interview. Upon reaching there,
one of the HR manager informed me that the interview will be conducted over
the Skype, and It would be all about my understanding of fundamentals of
software engineering. She also told me that this particular client had had
rejected several candidates in the past. This made me even more nervous.

After waiting for another 30 minutes, I was invited to a small cabin, which
had a table, a chair and a laptop. I sat on the chair, adjusted my self
infront of the laptop and the very next moment laptop's screen lit-up by a
Skype call.

A white lady who was probably in her early 40s appeared on the screen and
greeted me with a smile. She gave her introduction. She was polite and was
speaking in fluent British accent.

She started the proceedings by asking about some basic details and then
followed up by some technology related questions. I answered those questions
confidently. I will clear this easily, I told my self, and then, the moment
when I thought everything going butterly smooth, she struck with the question
which I never heard in any interview, ever -

 **I want to move Mount Fuji from Japan to UK, how will u do that?**

Me : Whaaaat? ( I sounded like Ana from shades of grey, equally confused.)

She repeated the question with a smirk, which for a moment reminded me of
Tamraj Kilvish.

I couldn't understand the logic behind the question. How is it related to the
position I am applying for? I asked my self.

why is she asking this? Why the hell she wants to move mount Fuji to UK? Do
Britishers still have habits of looting precious items from other nations?
Shall I ask her to return our Kohinoor diamond? Is she on a mission to steal
mount Fuji from Japan? Suddenly she turned into this -

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-d7bef0924e3a91b1195975bab46fbf61)

Supervillain Gru, hatching a plan to steal the moon.

Am I now part of her army of little minions? Was Japan a British colony? No
idea. Who cares? Why the hell I am thinking all these when **** all I have to
think about is the answer. What if I couldn't answer the question? Come on,
come up with something smart. But what? What was her intention behind asking
this question)

Then it struck me. I knew what she was looking for. I realised why she asked
that question.

(I cleared my throat)

Me: Okk, alright so you want to move Mount Fuji. Let's do it.

Let's call it project “Move the mountains". But before we start working on our
ambitious project “Move the mountains”, we have to do the project analysis. We
have to answer some questions for project analysis -

  1. Are the requirements of project feasible, considering the limitations of available technologies?
  2. If yes, what technology/technologies we can use for moving the mountain.
  3. Once technology is finalized, we will need a plan that we will stick to throughout the project.
  4. Our plan has to be agile. Moving different parts of mountain will have different challenges, so let's divide all those challenges in small sets of challenges, let's call each set of challenges a sprint. We will move one part of mountain in each sprint.
  5. We will track each sprint's progress by its status, which would be “in-progress”, “completed”, “quality check” and ‘job done”. This way each small piece of mount Fuji will be moved with utmost precision. We can also prioritise and change the sequence in which parts will be moved as we are moving mountain in pieces and not the whole mountain at a time.
  6. At the end of every sprint, you can check if that part is moved properly or not, incase of any issues, you can inform the team immediately, instead of waiting for the time, when the whole mountain is moved.

I knew I answered in a best possible way. I could see the smile on her face,
she asked me couple of other questions - like how will you know if my
requirements are feasible or not. However in the end, she was satisfied with
overall answers.

Not to mention, I got the offer letter very next day. :) ( I rejected the
offer though, but that story is for some other day)

PS - To the people **** who didn't understand the refrence, the answer was
given according to a well known development methodology used in software
development process.

Image source - [File:Mount Fuji Japan with Snow, Lakes and Surrounding
Mountains.jpg](https://commons.m.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Mount_Fuji_Japan_with_Snow,_Lakes_and_Surrounding_Mountains.jpg#mw-
jump-to-license)


##########
**These are some of the weirdest( read difficult) questions asked in various
interviews of Google. Don’t take my answers seriously, they aren’t the ticket
to Google:) Just make sure your answers are unique**!

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-4252f4d0eef72821af2cf722a95b7906-c)

 **1\. Explain a database in 3 sentences to your 7 year old nephew.**

 _Answer – A database is a way of organizing information. It’s like a genie
who knows where every toy in your room is. Instead of hunting for certain toys
yourself and searching the whole room, you can ask the genie to find all your
toy soldiers, or only X-Men action figures, or only race cars — anything you
want._

 **2\. How many golf balls could you fit into a classic American school bus?**

 _Answer – the density of a closest packing for spheres is pi/sqrt(12) or
.9069._

 _1/.9069 = 1.1027 volume occupied by spheres in a given space._

 _Further with all the material in a school bus, it can be treated as a
cylinder with a radius of 4 feet or 48 inches and a length of 22 feet or 264
inches. (pi(r)^2)h is the volume of a cylinder. The total volume is 401,420
cubic inches. The diameter of the ball is 1.6 and is enclosed by a cube with
volume = 4.096. 401,420/4.096= 98,001_

 _This is then multiplied by the density and_ ** _the answer is 88,877
balls_**.

 **3\. Why are manhole covers round?**

Answer – A round manhole cover cannot fall into the hole it covers. In
addition, heavy, round manhole covers are easier for one person to move by
standing it on end and rolling. Also, you don’t have to “align” a manhole
cover to it’s hole. Any orientation will do.

 **4\. You are shrunk to the height of a 10p piece and your weight is
proportionally reduced so as to maintain your original density. You are then
thrown into an empty glass blender. The blades will start moving in 60
seconds. What do you do?”**

 _Answer – (well, a genuine answer given by a candidate) – Take off all my
clothes, wedge them between the blades and the floor to prevent it from
turning. Back up against the edge of the blender until the electric motor
overheats and burns out. Using the notches etched in the side for measuring,
climb out. If there are no such notches or they’re too far apart, retrieve
clothes and make a rope to hurl myself out._

 **5\. You are at a party with a friend and 10 people are present including
you and the friend. Your friend makes you a wager that for every person you
find that has the same birthday as you, you get £1; For every person that does
not have the same birthday as you, he gets £2. Would you accept the wager?**

 _Answer – My expected Profit =
1*(1/365)+2*(1/365)^2+3*(1/365)^3+…+10*(1/365)^10 = 1 (approx)_

 _The above expression is AGP. Refer the formula for_  
 _sum of n terms_

 _Friend’s expected profit = 2*(364/365) + 4*(364/365)^2 + .. +
20*(364/365)^10_

 _Hence I accept the bet.(you will surely differ)☺  
———————————————————————————————————————-_


##########
I heard this interview scene from a friend of mine.

So, the background first. One of the premier Institutions of India was
offering the post of Assistant Professor of English. And the eligibility
criteria was pretty high. Needless to say, there were very few who actually
qualified for the interview.

There were two persons in the interview room. One was a bit older, probably in
his fifties and the other was a smart young man. The interview starts…

Mr. A opens the door and requests permission to get in.

Young Man: **Wait Please!**

Mr. A waits for a few seconds. But the interviewers seem to be busy with their
work. Seconds turn into minutes. Mr. A clears his throat hoping to catch the
attention of them, but all in vain. After a couple of minutes more, he turns
back and leaves the room.

The female attendee smirks seeing Mr. A leave the room, as if she had been a
part of some secret joke. She calls the next person, Mr. B.

The same incident follows. Mr. B is greeted with another “ **Wait Please!** ”
He waits for a couple of minutes, tries to get the attention of the
Interviewers who seem to be really busy with their work. Fails to do so.
Returns to his chair with a heavy heart.

Similar incident follows with Mr. C, Mr. D, and so on. Now there was only one
person, Mr. S, left to be interviewed **(** _read: kept waiting_ **)**. He was
hearing some whispers from the other interviewees and decided there must be
something else that might be happening on in there. As his name was being
called out, he proceeded to the interview room and like everybody others was
greeted with a “ **Wait Please!** ”

He replied immediately, “ **67 kg Sir.** ”

The two interviewers looked up at Mr. S. The young interviewer was pleased at
least somebody was smart enough to look at his reply in some other way.
Actually, though it sounded **Wait Please!** , actually he was asking them
their **weight**. None of the persons before Mr. S, applying to teach English
could figure out that “ _wait_ ” and “ _weight_ ” are actually **Homophones**.

Mr. S was the first to be interviewed, although he had his name at the bottom
end of the list. All the other interviewees scratching their head outside were
also interviewed eventually. But guess who grabbed the job?

 **MR. S.**


##########
**IIM Ahmedabad ( PGP- FABM ) Interview  
** _8th March 2016 ( Afternoon Slot ) , Kolkata_

 _Panel : 2 members ( both males in 40s )(_ **M1,M2** _)  
_ ** _I shall discuss the tricky part only ._**

 **M2 :** Sandeep , your hobby being puzzles (extracurriculars mentioned in
special form for non-agri applicants & also a part of my introduction ), let’s
test you on that.

 **I :** Ok.

 **M2 :** Let’s say , you get abducted by some evil aliens. **** They take you
to some other planet & make you **blind.** Out of sympathy , a kind alien
hands over a bottle to you which has **_135 magical choc bars_**. But this
bottle has ** _equal quantity of 5 different colour choc bars i.e
red,green,brown,yellow and black (27 each)._** Now, you have to ** _consume
only 9 of each colour choc_** bar to return to planet. Obviously , the _sizes
are identical_ so, you can’t sort them and _even the good alien can’t help_
you beyond that point. What will you do ?

( Extremely long question , thought for some 15–20 secs )

 **I** : Sir, is their **any difference in tastes** among colours ? ( just so
I can insert my nail inside chocs and sort them according to flavours)

 **M2** : No.

 **I** : Sir, what might be the **length of each choc bar ?**

 **M2 :** Assume each to be a length of your **fore finger .**

When he said forefinger , I got where this was going.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-00c6b52e911754eb7e8cb95ce501ba1a)

 **I** : Sir, ** _can these chocs be broken_** or consumed in whole only ? Can
they be **_broken with some minimal force_** of a finger fold ?

 **M2** : Yes, they can be broken , let’s assume with minimal force. Let’s see
where you’re going ( Is he trying to confuse me by saying this )

 **I** : Sir , I would keep each choc on my forefinger. you can see that the
marks on the forefinger almost divide the finger into 3 equal parts. On
folding my finger , each choc would be broken down into **_3 equal parts._**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-90257f4c798041c50e07e637f0d90340)

 **M2** : Ok , go ahead.

 **I** : Now, out of these 3 parts , **_I shall keep any 1 part and throw away
the other 2 parts quite far. In this way, I break all 135 full chocs into 135
(1/3) parts . Since I used all colour chocs, hence now I have 27 (1/3) parts
of all colours effectively 9 full of each colour of choc._**

 **M2** : A little issue , they have to be exact 45 chocs. So, any other more
effective way of sorting ? I mean in forefinger too some pieces would be
bigger, some smaller then what is a better way of sorting ?

 **I** : Since he has to exactly consume 45 , what he can do is for the
******_first 45 chocs he breaks he needs to select the lowest part_** __
broken, for **next 45 the middle part** & for **last 45 he goes for the top
piece.** This way he ensures that he get 45 full finger length chocs with
better probability.

M2 : Ok ! Yes, that’s a lot better approach.

And the interview went on for a few minutes more.

 **Verdict** : **Selected ! Didn’t Join ( Pursuing MBA from IIM Bangalore)**

 ** _Thanks for reading ._**

 ** _Note : This is MBA ( Food & agri-business), not their world class - Post
Graduate Programme :-P ._**


##########
**Prove infinity=infinity.**

This was asked in my IIM-C interview (February 2016). It was a math-based
brain teaser.

 **Interviewer:** (After drawing two lines on a page, one short line AB and
one long line CD) How many points in line AB?  
 **Me:** Infinite.

 **Interviewer:** And how many in CD?  
 **Me:** Infinite.

 **Interviewer:** Does line CD have more points than AB since it is longer?  
 **Me:** Nothing can be more infinite or less infinite so both have the same
number of points.

 **Interviewer:** Correct. So prove that both lines AB and CD have the same
number of points.

I thought for 3-4 minutes. Played around with the lines but unfortunately
nothing hit me at that moment.

In the end I couldn't solve it but it is still one of the best questions I've
been asked in an interview mainly because of the simplicity in the solution:

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-367a181401e15ab3305446b3010e05d2)

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-66028c43f43fef06e26a90f1fd9c426e-c)

  
I Googled it as soon as I came out of the room.

Screenshots posted above belong to a section of the book, 'A long way from
Euclid'. ​

 **Edit 1: (2/5/2016)**

People have made some really great points in the comments section. Please go
through those after reading the answer! I have been really busy over the last
few days but finally got some time today to go through all of them. I have
summarised a few below:-

  1. The question is obviously paradoxical (Feeling silly that it didn't strike me earlier). One can prove that they have the same number of points and one can also prove that they don't (as shown by [Siva Praneeth](/profile/Siva-Praneeth)).
  2. Some infinities can be bigger than other infinities. (As said by [Mihir Kshire](/profile/Mihir-Kshire), [User-12395599714407042467](/profile/User-12395599714407042467), [Supriyo Banerjee](/profile/Supriyo-Banerjee-7), [Abhishek Agarwal](/profile/Abhishek-Agarwal-55), [Agnishom Chattopadhyay](/profile/Agnishom-Chattopadhyay), [Ajay Sharma](/profile/Ajay-Sharma-32) and many others! Thank you guys. I wasn't aware of this.)
  3. The Banach-Tarski paradox can help explain this concept better. Thank you [Krishna Praveen](/profile/Krishna-Praveen) and [Karan Singh](/profile/Karan-Singh-451) for telling me about this paradox! [Twarit Waikar](/profile/Twarit-Waikar) has provided a link to a really nice video explaining the same. 
  4. Lastly, for the people asking about the results. I didn't get selected. Apart from this question(which I couldn't answer), the remaining interview wasn't that great either.

 **Video explaining the Banach-Tarski Paradox:**


##########
**Question 1:**

 **Interviewer:** have a cup of sugarless tea adding a teaspoonful of sugar.

 **Candidate:** Initially he got bemused and thought for a few seconds, and
added a teaspoonful of sugar into the tea cup and stirred well.

Secondly, he took one more teaspoonful of sugar and ate it to sweeten his
mouth.

After sweetening his mouth, he started drinking the cup of tea which made the
tea SUGARLESS.

As we all know, we feel sugarless to tea/coffee after consuming sweets.

 **Question 2:**

 **Interviewer** : There is one scooter which has 2 tyres and one
stepney/spare (meaning 3 tyres). Each tyre can run up to max 5 km. How long
will the scooter run till?

 **Candidate** : Confused, one thought struck my mind that 5 kms obviously as
scooter can't run with one tyre. But if that would be the answer then the
question shouldn't be asked in that way. Thought for a while, did some
calculations, then gave the answer as 7.5 kms.

 **Interviewer** : How?

 **Candidate** :

  * First run 2.5 km and change the 1st tyre with stepney. Now kms remains in 1st tyre: 2.5 km, 2nd tyre: 2.5 km, Stepney : 5 km
  * Again run for 2.5 km and this time change 2nd tyre with 1st tyre: Now kms remains 1st tyre: 2.5 km, 2nd tyre :0 km ,stepney : 2.5 km.
  * Now run 2.5 km with remaining 1st tyre and stepney .

Total: 2.5+2.5+2.5=7.5


##########
