I’ve worked as a PM with remote teams, and managed remote PMs. I would only
hire a remote PM if they were the “right PM” for a remote job.
[Toptal](https://www.toptal.com/product-managers/remote?utm_campaign=Hire-a-
product-manager-working-
remotely&utm_content=pdm1_pa&utm_medium=promoted_answer&utm_source=quora.com)
can help you with you search fo...


##########
Before any interview, you should go through the company's website to know the
technologies, applications, sectors, types of services/products the company is
engaged in. You should also know who are the top 5 people of the company and
its sales turnover, number of employees......

You should also gather info from your friends/contacts about the company which
may not be there on the website.

During the interview, you should show that you have a good amount of knowledge
about the company and say that 'With these ............. skills of mine and my
interest in working on your kind of products/services, I am sure that I will
be able to contribute well in the growth of your company.'

This should work.


##########
![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-1b49a7cd0ea7e296ac26654d289eb080-c)

Image: tpclive .org

Before answering this question, please do research on the organisation in
which you desire to be hired.

You must do research on the work culture of the organization to understand
what personality traits are required to fit into the work culture of the
target organization.

You must study the details about the products/services being offered by
company. Also please study in detail the digital marketing strategies being
followed by company so that you can find the RATIONALE behind their digital
marketing strategies.

Check about the skills required in the job for which you are applying.

 **You must then prepare a laundry list of how you can help that company
increase its awareness in the virtual world by utilizing all social media
platforms.**

 **You must also have thorough knowledge on the cost effectiveness of
different social media platforms depending on the message , product/service in
question and the target audience.**

 **You must then go on to convince the company how you can add value to the
company by utilizing the social media platforms optimally .**

You must also corroborate your answers how your social media strategy will
help driver the revenue numbers for the company.

Then prepare your answer on basis of your research and present yourself as the
person with the right skill and personality type who will fit seamlessly in
the culture of organization.

All the best !


##########
By this question, HR wants to know about your qualities, management skills and
your showcasing skills, how you manage to answer this questions tells many
things to HR.

There is no pick-up line or any particular answer which can help you to
impress HR in just one line. You should answer HR according to your
capabilities and abilities.

But there are some Do's and Don'ts one should keep in mind while answering
this question -

find out them on original blog [Why should we hire you? - Interview
Question](http://placementandcorporate.com/why-should-we-hire-you/)

> Never use other's answer, try to make your own answer.

>

> Here is a _link_ to the [online campus placement preparation
guide](http://placementandcorporate.com/) which helps you to know each and
every thing related to **campus placement and how to prepare for it.**

Cheers.


##########
PRECISE ANSWERS TO THE POINT:-

• ** _You want to get your work done ,I am the one who can do it and will live
no stone unturned_** **.**

 ** _•I have given no reason,why you shouldn't hire me._**

OTHER ANSWERS:-

Search in depth for the company, find out which departments would you like to
work with and make your profile based on it.

 ** _•As your company is well versed with the following areas and my profile
is matching to your concerned areas and I am deeply interested in the same ,
you will get an employee who will work with full enthusiasm and passion ._**


##########
Well I will keep it short & brisk; follow these steps:

  1. Read the job description carefully & try to relate your passion with it.
  2. If you can get yourself emotionally attached to that position your answer will come as more honest.
  3. Read about the company; if its a startup read about their journey.
  4. Be confident of your skills and let the HR know you are willing to prove yourself for the company.

A very important thing is to understand the mindset of the HR. What does
he/she want of you? Read some articles here [Importance
](https://aircto.com/blog/importance-of-follow-up-questions/)[of
](https://aircto.com/blog/importance-of-follow-up-
questions/?utm_medium=blog&utm_source=quora)[Follow-Up Questions in
Interviews](https://aircto.com/blog/importance-of-follow-up-questions/) . You
will get a very good idea of how the recruitment process work & trust me its
going to help you.


##########
I had appeared for an interview with one of the huge IT services firm sometine
ago, i work as a business developer.

After few rounds of interview i was called for the final round and i was asked

“ **what if we don't hire you** ”

I'm never spontaneous a person, but sincere passion for my job helped me to
respond in the most appropriate way in that occasion!

I said “ **one of your million dollar account will be with my current
organization in case you don't hire me** ”

They offered me the job!


##########
Recently, I went for an internship interview for a testing profile.

At the end of 3rd round of interview, interviewer asked me “Why should we hire
you?”

I don’t know why I answer that or how did that came out of my mouth. I replied
“Because you want your product to be better.”

Interviewer said “We don’t have a product” and there was a smile on our face
which mark the end of an interview.

P.S - I got the internship.


##########
Running a small business is an all-consuming venture that can eat up a lot of
your time. At times, it can become quite overwhelming and can easily rob you
of your energy and enthusiasm. Hiring a Digital Marketing Consultant or
outsourcing your online marketing to a professional digital marketing agency
is the obvious solution. Following are 10 of the most striking benefits of
hiring a digital marketing assistant.

 **1 – Your marketing stays unaffected by staff issues**

 **2 – Your marketing is handled by a team of experts**

 **3 – You get the best ROI for your marketing**

 **4 – You get the benefit of objective analysis**

 **5 – Your core business can maintain a healthy distance from marketing**

 **6 – Your marketing keeps up with the industry updates**

 **7 – You get multiple tasks accomplished without hassle**

 **8 – Your marketing strategies are constantly optimized and improved**

 **9 – You get the advantage of the best available technology**

 **10 – You get the benefit of their specialization**

if you are from raipur and looking for you website to get boost up then
Excellence Digital Academy is one of the best place for [digital marketing
training institute in raipur](https://www.excellencedigitalacademy.com/).


##########
Here are the reasons why you absolutely can not afford to lose the opportunity
to hire me (if it exists)

  *  **I won’t market something that I would not buy myself** \- I won’t join you join you if I am not absolutely in love with the idea coz I believe that the only way to build the best product is to be your own customer
  *  **I don’t give a rat’s a** about the money but I still want you to pay me a premium** - **** Confused?? Here’s the explanation - True I don’t care about the money beyond the bills ($300-$400/Mo) but you do and I need to know that I am valued. And ideally I’d want an all-stocks salary coz I am in it to win it.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-e474290445f39de2ed9ba0194c7d40ea-c)

  *  **I don't bull-shit** \- When things are not working everyone knows it but our trophy CMO always has a reason why it’s not working and the tweak that we need to make to get the numbers in the next month/quarter and that just goes on and on. Guess what I am not that guy. When things go south I’ll sit with you and find out what’s wrong and what are we missing.
  *  **I am the walking taking startup culture** \- Ever met a real guy who has no problem walking into the office in his sleeping shorts, barefoot or wearing a reversed T-Shirt coz it’s not washed and finding a maid is too trivial? Just ask my co-workers.   
  
Sometimes they say it to my face and sometimes they don’t but doesn’t really
matter coz I wanna be judged only and only by my performance

  *  **My social life is in-existent** It’s not dead or dormant, it’s in-existent. So you can call at 11:00 PM to tell me that we need to pull an all-nighter today and I will like- Whats are doing? Coz no one is waiting at home.   
Those who are judging- you get only so much time when you are at your best,
you have to decide what you want your story to be

  *  **I am the best anti-social person you can find -** I can get totally cut-off and introverted. Not caring about even the world coming to an end when I need to focus and meet me at a startup event and you can see me walking up to prospects and charming them effortlessly.
  *  **I know my thing-** I am a digital marketer and unlike most experts I don’t claim to be an expert but I do know somethings about Digital Marketing and that’s why you are reading this answer rather than my resume.  
  
 ** _If you are wondering- No I didn’t hijack this question on quora. Or maybe
I did. Meet me and I will tell you_**


##########
