March,22 : 2018 I got a call from a consultancy asking for a job change(which
I was actually looking for) and further based on my interest asked me to
forward my CV stating , the client is the top Big 4 company i.e. Deloitte.

I was shortlisted for an online round conducted by Cocubes. The test consisted
of several MCQ type of questions and had a certain cut off. The difficulty
level of the test was pretty high ( 8 /10) and only those who will clear were
supposed to attend the further interview process. Luckily, I was the one among
many who cleared.

The next morning exactly at 10 I got a call from the HR team of Deloitte that
I have cleared the round and asked for my availability for the next rounds.The
HR confirmed the slot and sent me a mail no sooner than I expected with a
detailed description about the further rounds.

I was glad to attend the interview and the location of the Deloitte Mumbai
Office i.e. Powai( seems like UK in India) added a lot to my expectations in
terms of pay scale and brand value.

There were in all 4 rounds to go through .

  1. Technical Round 1
  2. Technical Round 2
  3. Versant Test
  4. Managerial Round

The interview process was very well organized. No waste of time at all ,
thanks to the Deloitte HR team . People were made to wait in the auditorium
hall and a short session about What is Deloitte, What it does, What it is to
work for Deloitte, Deloitte global presence and the timeline of the
organisation was shown.

Thereafter the resumes were collected and based on the time slots alloted, the
interview rounds were conducted. Both the technical rounds were taken by smart
and experienced panelists who were well versed about the technology and domain
for which they were hiring. Programming questions from core to advanced level
were asked and the candidate was thoroughly examined to match the potential of
their desired level .

After that a small break for refreshments was provided to all. Snacks, juices,
sandwiches, cutlets, etc. were served. Frankly speaking, they were delicious
and people took more than once. ;)

I was selected for the versant test which was an elimination round and a
threshold score was needed to go to the next round. There was a great fear
amongst all for this round as this was not an usual round candidates were
familiar with. I somehow managed to score in this round and was sent for a
managerial round with the Managing Director of the company. The MD was a lady
and seemed quite justified with her depth of knowledge and her role for the
organisation. She asked me questions about my carreer goals , cross questions
to check my confidence, scenario based reasoning and a variety of what if
questions to see whether I am fit for the company or not. The round lasted for
about 15 minutes and I was really impressed by knowing from the HR that I have
cleared all my rounds and has been added to the queue for the final HR
discussion.

I was happy and thanked God.

Later called by senior HR manager with an agenda to discuss my compensation
part and various benefits Deloitte has for me. This was the best round and I
was super excited for this.

Questions like 50% on current offer, no no 55% , ask for 60% then make it
55…?? were in my mind and finally the HR asked me my expectation and we both
fall into the negotiation war. Finally I got the offer what I was looking for
and was happy enough to share this news with my friends and family.

 ** _Kudos to the HR team of Deloitte who put the event together with proper
management and efficient time management_**.

They justified the name “ **Deloitte”**


##########
_I will write it from an experienced hire view._

 **Year :** 2014 **Month :** November

Received a call from the HR of Deloitte Consulting to schedule an interview at
Bengaluru office ( _I still_ _Remember, it was on Saturday)_

They had called us at 8 AM slot for the Interview. Before starting with the
process, they took us to a big hall having a huge screen, showed us “ _What is
Deloitte among others” ._

 ** _First Technical Round:_**

Asked various questions related to QA ( SDLC, STLC, etc… ), Gave me a scenario
to solve and how would I go about if there is any issue being faced the
_client_. Explained me on the projects being handled and what is my expertise,
that would bring an added advantage to their table. I was _literally_ being
put onto the wall with firing dozen cannon balls against me ( _Questions ;) )_
on “ _what if”_

Asked me to wait for some time for the HR to announce, They called me to
attend the second round.

 ** _Second Technical Round:_**

I was being interviewed by an awesome guy, who knew the subject very well. He
asked me various questions on _SQL_ as I had mentioned it as one of my
expertise in my resume ( _Asked me to rate myself and asked based on it )._ He
asked me various stages involved in a project and how to go about if one fails
or even if the _client_ doesn’t come back. He was looking at, if I would bring
in advantage to the _team_ and be a _team player_ or I tend to work in silos.

Did some mistakes while answering, but I was confident enough to let him know
that _my answer to a particular question was not up to the mark,_ but tried to
arrive at a solution. He was also looking at “ _How would I solve a problem
given at any situation and what resolutions I might be looking at “._ Asked me
questions related to _Automation (Selenium)_ and how I would have solved (
_Asked me to write code)_. Gave a blueprint on the framework in selenium.

I was being asked to wait again, HR called me to attend the next round.

 ** _Managerial Round:_**

This was more of a discussion pertaining to my resume and what are my interest
and hobbies. Questions like _Why Deloitte, My previous experience, Domains
worked on etc…_

HR asked me to wait and take up the next round

 ** _Versant Test: ( English test)_**

A sheet will be given to you containing various questions, Dial in using their
conference phone and give appropriate answers. They are basically trying to
test your communications and how well you would converse at any point in time.

Now, all the rounds got completed. Was waiting for one last round to be done.

 ** _HR Round:_**

Discussion with regards to your compensation/salary etc…

All the rounds happened on the very same day. The time was 5:30 PM. Completely
drained/exhausted. Came out, we were all given some goodies to take home for
clearing all the rounds.

Received _offer letter_ after 2 to 3 weeks and joined _Deloitte Consulting_ in
the month of January, 2015.


##########
My Deloitte interview was fun and learning experience. It was definitely not
easy but I won’t say that it was super difficult. If you strategize and
prepare in the right direction, you will easily crack not only Deloitte
interview but also EY, PwC, and KPMG interview. I was interviewed for the
Consultant position in the San Francisco office. Well, office location really
doesn’t matter as the interview process is consistent for all the US offices.

 **Employee Referral Program**

I applied through the employee referral program at Deloitte. One of my
previous colleague at PwC was working at Deloitte and he referred me for an
open position. I would highly recommend hunting for a referral rather than an
online application. Deloitte gets thousands of online application and it is
hard for recruiters to review each and every application. If you apply through
a referral, your resume will definitely be considered.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-8fb04ef13021888f4e3dfaf93a816067)

 **First Phone Interview with HR**

Within 2 weeks of referral, I received a positive response from Deloitte
recruiter asking for my availability for a phone interview. I immediately
responded and shared my availability. I took time of 7 days for a phone
interview so that I could prepare well. Don’t hurry, take a few days extra and
prepare yourself for the interview. First phone interview was very simple as
it was an introduction call with the recruiter. She asked me basic questions
about my education background and professional experience. It lasted for 20
mins. For this round, my advice would be to double check everything written on
your resume. You should know the details of each and every experience listed
there. Also, read about company history, job position details and why you are
a good fit for it?

 **Second Phone Interview**

Two days after my first phone interview, I was invited for another phone
interview. This time a Senior Consultant interviewed me and asked mostly
behavioral questions. Needless to mention, you should be prepared to talk
about the experiences mentioned in your resume. To handle behavioral
questions, prepare a 5–7 stories based on your past experiences. For example.

  * Tell us about a situation when you managed a difficult client.
  * Mention a situation when you displayed leadership skills.
  * How would your ex-colleagues describe you as a person?

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-995c29239f0109b29e5e1240edb8f13a)

 **On-site Interview**

Finally, after two successful phone interviews, Deloitte invited me for an on-
site interview. Recruiter shared a couple of date options with me. Most
interviews are conducted on Fridays. My final interview was scheduled in the
San Francisco office. On the final interview day, my recruiter received me at
the office and introduced me to the interviewers. Everyone was very friendly
and I must say that all the interviewers allowed me to perform at my best.

  *  **What did I like most?**  
All the interviewers shared details of their daily job and expectations from
the interview. Also, they were very helpful throughout the interview. It was
very clear that they were trying to motivate me throughout the interview
process.

  *  **What to prepare for the interview?  
  
Behavioral Interview: **Prepare all basic behavioral questions related to your
background and professional experiences. If you are not familiar, please
follow **_STAR format_** **** to answer behavioral questions. **  
** S - Situation, T- Task, A- Action, R- Result **  
  
Case Interview:** Cracking the case interview is quite easy. Just make sure
you answer questions with a calm and composed mind. Here is the most
successful framework to solve the case interview round:  
a. Understand the problem statement  
b. Ask clarifying questions  
c. Make necessary hypothesis  
d. Identify metrics that are relevant to your recommendation  
e. Come up with a solution  
f. Mention potential risks and mitigation plans  
g. Make a final Recommendation  
  
Deloitte has provided some guidelines for their case interview, please check
this [Deloitte Case
Link](https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/careers/articles/join-deloitte-
case-interview-prep-tool.html)

If you are willing to join Deloitte, I would highly recommend to check out
[HiCounselor.com](https://hicounselor.com/joseph-r-luchtan), here you can take
one-on-one advice from a Deloitte employee. I wish you all the very best and
let me know in comments if you have any questions. Good luck!


##########
I would like to share with you detailed interview experience of one of my
batchmates who got placed in Deloitte.

> Source - [Deloitte -
UnsaidTalks](http://unsaidtalks.com/interviews/deloitte/)

 **“Mansi Nainwal”** who was placed at **“Deloitte** ** _”_** talks about her
interview experience and some other tips to prepare for placement season.
Check out what she says about placement season.

 ** _Profile Offered_** : BTA

 ** _Cgpa cutoff: 6.5_**

 ** _Interview difficulty level_** : 3/10 (1-very easy, 10-very Difficult)

Here are the questions we asked from Mansi to know about her interview
experience.

 ** _Question 1: Introduce yourself to our readers._**

Answer 1: I’m a fourth year student pursuing my B.E. degree in electronics and
communication engineering. Being from a defence background, I was born and
brought up in different parts of the country. I’m a dynamic person with hands
on experience in event management, risk management and client relationship
management. I’ve been a part of numerous technical as well as non- technical
events during my college life. A quick learner and high on energy, strong
communication skills with the will to deploy my skills and education in a
challenging environment. I’ve a desire to explore my potential and
capabilities.

 ** _Question 2: Describe Your written test experience specifying the number
of rounds, details of each round and type of test platform ( If online mention
the type of test platform eg. Hackereart, CoCubes,_** Amcat ** _etc)._**

Answer: The first round was an aptitude round organised by AMCAT covering
sections like verbal, quant and logical reasoning.The questions’ difficulty
level was easy- medium but time was a key factor. About 20% of the candidates
were selected for further rounds.

 ** _Question 3: Describe your all technical interviews specifying number of
rounds and details of each round._**

Answer: The second round was a group discussion/ case study round wherein the
candidates were divided into groups and a common case was given to every
group. This one page case was a simple problem faced by a company. we were
given 20 minutes to discuss all the questions given to us and simultaneously
draw a chart depicting our approach towards the case. This whole process was
being monitored by one of the interviewers. For the next few minutes, we were
asked to present our case using the chart only. This process was being
monitored by another interviewer.

 ** _Question 4: Describe your all HR interviews specifying number of rounds
and details of each round._**

Answer: The third and the final round was a personal interview round which was
a consolidated interview consisting of both the HR as well as the technical
questions with two interviewers. Questions were rested around the resume. The
first five minutes were solely based upon my summer project and the related
technical requirements. For the next 10 minutes, I was asked questions based
on the co-curricular activities I’ve been a part of and my family background.
Also, Attrition rates in big 4 companies is usually very high and managers are
very keen to know whether you really need the job or not.

 ** _Question 5: What do you think were key factors for your selection?_**

Answer: Strong communication skills and convincing power, confidence,
impressive resume ( should know your resume inside-out ), basic concepts are
clear.

 ** _Question 6: What would you like to advise juniors for technical skills
they should develop for this company?_**

Answer: Make sure your basic concepts of atleast one language are clear. You
don’t have to be a master in it, but should be able to make basic programs out
of the knowledge you’ve. Also, you should know all the technical requirements
of the projects you’ve mentioned in your resume.

 ** _Question 7:_** _What would you like to advise juniors for cracking HR
round of this company?_

Answer: Be yourself. Don’t over- extol yourself. Confidence along with poise
is the key factor.

* * *

To read Interviews of other companies click here → [Interviews -
UnsaidTalks](http://unsaidtalks.com/interviews/)


##########
On Feb 4 2019, I’ve been called for Deloitte interview process at Hyderabad
but due to some work related stuff I wanted the interview to be rescheduled to
a week after.

But due to the unavailability of the panelist & other reason, the interview
got schedule on March 4,2019.

The HR was so friendly that he used to give a reminder on the day of the
interview.

I went to Deloitte office at 2 P.M. The first round was a technical round.

The interview happened for about 1 hour 15 mins or so with many problem
solving questions and case study related questions but this was my best
experience till date.

Once the interview was completed, I was told to wait outside. The HR came
after 45mins and told me that I cleared the round.

And he told me that will we reverting back to me for scheduling the client
interview which will be a Skype round.

Couple of days later ,he called me and scheduled the interview. It was on
Friday night and the interview went for 45mins(included technical & my work
related stuff).

But the result of this round came after 3 weeks as the client was out of town.
I lost all hopes during that time. But then , the HR called and told me that I
cleared the client round as well, and there will another client interview
round.

It was scheduled on Friday and attended through Skype. So again in the next
week, the HR called me told I've cleared round and asked me to visit the
office as I have a discussion with Vice President of the project.

So I went office and had little chat with him about my current work
responsibilities and all. After that I had to wait for 15mins and the HR came
to asked to give the Versant test. So, he dropped me a mail regarding the
process of taking versant test.

I gave the versant test and 4 days later I got the result that I cleared.
After 2 days, I got a call from the recruitment team asking for me salary
documents and other stuff(Pre Hiring Survey). After I completed my Pre Hire
Survey, had a discussion regarding the salary.

After 7-12 days of waiting I got my offer letter on May 7.

I felt it is worth the wait.


##########
Date: September 2016  
Place: Indore  
My Profile: B.E. (Electronics and Telecommunication)

The Placement process consisted of 3 rounds-

1\. Online written test-The test was conducted by a third party. It consisted
of 5 sections.

(i)VERBAL ABILITY- This section tests your basic English knowledge. My paper
had questions from fill in the blanks, Error identification, Reading
comprehension and vocabulary (the words asked were not the words that you use
in normal life but you will know them if you read books).

(ii)QUANTITATIVE ABILITY- Extremely easy mathematics questions from topics
like Time and distance, Alligation mixture, time and work, ratio proportion.

(iii)LOGICAL REASONING- Again an easy section. Consisted questions from Number
series, Blood relations, linear and circular arrangements and selections &
distributions.

(iv)SQL- Consisted basic queries and debugging questions from PLSQL, TSQL,
cursors, stored procedures and triggers.

(v)CODING- We were asked to make 2 programs using C. The first one, to find
all the prime numbers before a given natural number and the second one was to
print the given pattern.

Some students were also asked explicitly in the question to make the second
program in C++.

2\. Case study- All the selected students were divided into groups of 6 or 7
and were given a case. We were then asked to discuss the case and find out the
solution to the given problem. The points on which we were checked included-
team work and the solutions proposed.

3\. Interview- Out of 118 students who cleared the written, only 43 were able
to clear the case study round. The 43 people were then divided into 4 groups
(because they had 4 interviewers). The first group had 4 members who were
directly interviewed by the Senior manager and had to go through only one
round of interview (probably because they performed well in the case study
round) and the rest were divided into 3 groups and all the students of these
groups had to go through 2 rounds of interview- first one by the manager and
the second one by the senior manager.

First Interview- Questions related to SQL (because I had mentioned it in my
resume) and some of my subjects were asked. Also questions like why Deloitte,
why advisory (the department they came in our college for recruitment), my
interests and hobbies were asked.

Second interview- Only HR questions were asked in this round. Questions about
my family and the challenges I have faced in my life were asked. Be ready to
ask them some questions.

TIPS - Be confident and be different. They need people with good communication
skills and those who can deal with every kind of situation. Basic knowledge of
SQL will be a plus point for you.

In the case study round, don’t dominate (those who did, got rejected). Give
everybody a chance to speak.

Finally 12 people got selected in the interview.  
All the best!!!!!!


##########
You will find this resource useful. Click here: Company Wise Interview
Experiences for Freshers, Questions, Answers and Tips


##########
