Write a short and crisp email and always keep it to the point. Also don’t
involve any unnecessary information that make the mail superfluous. Here’s an
example which you might use as a template:

 **Dear ___________________**

 **This is to inform you that I’ve recently applied to job position of <post
applied> at your <office location> office and had been interviewed for the
same. After having the pleasure to meet you, I’ve got to know know more about
the company and I want to be a part of this organization even more now.**

 **I just wanted to follow up on your current timeline to update the interview
status. I would be obliged if you could update me on the status of your
recruitment for the said position.**

 **Thank you for taking out the time and interviewing me. I am very excited at
the prospect of joining your organization and awaiting a positive response
from your side.**

 **Thanks and regards  
Name  
Phone number  
Short Address**


##########
Hi,

You may wright something like this, It could help you. You may modify it as
per your requirement or situation.

Hello **Mr. ABC,**

Greetings!

I hope you are doing well!

My name is **(your name)** , On 18th Jan 2018, I visited **(Company Name)**
for an interview for the **XYZ profile**. It was really a wonderful
interaction with you, I am really happy to know about company culture and my
job role. I would like to request you share the status of my application, thus
I could able to plan things accordingly.

Looking forward to a positive response!

Have a great day ahead!

 **Warm Regards,  
(Your name)  
(Contact No.)**

Hope this will help you!


##########
Here is a sample mail I wrote few months ago. You can come up with something
like this. Few points you should remember is that always keep it short and to
the point. Don't involve any unnecessary information irrespective of your
subject that is whole and sole intention of getting the status of your
interview.

Dear Ms./Mr. <Surname>,

I am <your full name> from <area>, recently applied to job position of <post
applied> at <company name> and had been interviewed for the same.

As per our conversation, I would like to hear about the evaluation of my
performance and further procedure, if any.

Looking forward to your response.

Regards,

<Your name>

Good luck!


##########
Sub : Follow Up email after interview for the position of XXXX

Dear ABC,

I am writing this email in regard to the interview conducted by you on the
10th of May for the position of Sales Executive. I was one of the candidates
present in the interview and had undergone three rounds. I was given to
understand that there were 2 more rounds to be held for which the candidates
would be short-listed on the basis of their performance in the 3rd round. I
haven’t received any communication from your end until now and thus wanted to
confirm about the 3rd round’s result.

I have heard a lot about your organization and am very keen on joining your
team of experts. I believe that joining your organization would give me a good
exposure and help me grow professionally. Kindly let me know by when the
interview result is expected. My interview rounds had gone quite well and I am
hoping to receive a positive reply from your end.

Thanks & Regards,

XYZ


##########
1009 Hankerson Road  
Chelsea, ME 77702

November 11, 2015

Mr. Mathew Jones  
Manager HR  
Alpha Delta Co.  
337 Elm Street  
Chelsea, ME 80112

 **Re: Inquiry About Hiring Decision (Administrative Assistant)**

Dear Mr. Jones:

I am writing to inquire about the status of my interview for the position of
an Administrative Assistant at Alpha Delta Co. Having had the pleasure to meet
with you personally last Thursday and getting to know more about the company
has instilled in me the want to be a part of this organization even more now.

I would like to reiterate my interest in this position as I am convinced that
I am very well suited for it. As discussed in interview, I possess excellent
organizational skills along with profound knowhow of office management
procedures. Now that I know more about Alpha Delta Co, I am already in the
process of mentally planning how I can add to its professionalism in order to
orchestrate a smooth flow of operations.

Thank you for taking out the time and interviewing me. I am very excited at
the prospect of joining your organization and awaiting a positive response
from your side. I can be reached at (362) 398-9999 or via email at [Email].

Thank you once again for your time and consideration.

Sincerely,

(Signature)  
Deborah Campbell

It is a part of the letter.

You can refer in websites like:

[Sample Letter Inquiring About Hiring
Decision](http://coverlettersandresume.com/inquiry/sample-letter-inquiring-
about-hiring-decision/)

[How to Write Email about the Status of Interview (with
sample)](http://coverlettersandresume.com/interview/how-to-write-email-about-
the-status-of-interview-with-sample/)

[Sample Job Interview Follow Up Email](http://www.best-job-
interview.com/interview-follow-up-email.html)

[How to Write a Letter Checking the Status of a
Job](http://work.chron.com/write-letter-checking-status-job-25491.html)

[How to Follow Up on a Job Interview (Without Being
Annoying)](http://lifehacker.com/5905427/how-to-follow-up-on-a-job-interview-
without-being-annoying)


##########
<Subject>: Attention HR Manager: Follow Up for Interview Status

Dear Mr. / Mrs. <Name>

I hope my email finds you well.

I am writing this email to know about the status of my <interview> conducted
at <date> for the position of <position name>.

Thanks,

Kind Regards,

<Your Name>

Hope it answers your question.


##########
Dear <<name of HR>>

It was a wonderful opportunity to have met you <<last week>> during my
interview at <<company name>>. << share your experience in couple of lines;
Eg: I must admit that I had a great interview, and indeed, few of the
questions i received were eye-openers. >>

I wouldn't take much of your time but would deeply appreciate it if you could
please let me know where I stand in the competition. It has been a week and my
curiosity knew no limits. :)

Thank you once again for your time and for having given an opportunity for
this interview.


##########
Be careful. It is fine to inquire if you expected do hear by a date and have
not. But your inquiry will not help you get hired and might annoy HR.

The tone you have to set is helpful and hopeful. Ask them if there are any
updates, and if they had any concerns that you could clarify for them.

Don't sound needy or desperate.


##########
Hi Hr,

I hope you are doing good today. I am (name) and have given an interview for
(profile name) on (date) and I would like to know about an updated status for
the interview given.

I would appreciate for any update regarding Interview .

Thanks

Name

Phone


##########
