You should never share your salary expectations before hearing the employers
offer for the following reasons:

  1. You do not have enough information to create an accurate range. You should never state your desired salary in the beginning of the negotiation because you don’t know the value of the position until you know what they are offering. You would be guessing at the value of their offer and this puts you at a disadvantage in negotiating and it leaves money on the table because you created a salary range without the complete details of the position. The total value of the offer includes the whole package such as salary, benefits, bonus structure, stock options, etc. Much of these are not know when you begin negotiations, the employer has to share that with you first, before you can accurate create your salary requirement.
  2. You want the employer to base their offer on your value, not based on the minimal amount they can hire you. If you prove your value during the interview process, the employer will be looking for ways to make the offer more attractive. For example, if the employer knows your value, they may start discussing higher salary options before you ask.

Here are two examples:

 **Hiring Manager** : _This candidate is perfect, when can they start?_

 **Recruiter** : _I don’t know their salary requirement, what if it is above
our pay range for the position?_

 **Hiring Manager** : _Are there any ways we can increase the pay for this
role, in case they come in above our salary range?_

 **Recruiter** : _The ceiling for this role is $85,000, but if we offer them
job title of Senior Account Executive, that salary is $95,000._

 **Hiring Manager** : _Great! Make the offer, be prepared to offer the higher
job title and salary of $95,000._

See how that puts you in a much better position to get a higher salary?
Because you did not share your salary up front, the employer is already
looking for ways they can increase the offer to ensure you accept their offer.

 **Hiring Manager** : _This candidate is perfect, when can they start?_

 **Recruiter** : _Yes, the top salary for the role is $85,000, they said they
wanted $75,000, so we’ll be able to save money on this hire._

 **Hiring Manager** : _Great, make the offer and try to stay below $75,000._

Also, having multiple offers is key to winning negotiation. Here is a strategy
for landing interviews with top companies quickly: [How I landed 12 Dream Job
Interviews in 24 Hours.](http://bit.ly/2U36yOm)

Here are some of the best responses when asked about salary:

  1.  _Thank you, I’m very excited about this position and I’m sure we can agree on a salary range that is fair for both of us when we discuss that. I’m very interested in learning more about the role and responsibilities so I can better gauge an appropriate compensation level._
  2.  _Thank you, I’m excited about the opportunity to be a part of your organization. I would like to learn more about the responsibilities to better gauge compensation requirements. I’ll have a better understanding of the role after my first round of interviews with managers._
  3.  _Thank you, I’m excited about the opportunity and I see this as a big step up in terms of responsibility and compensation. I’d like to learn more about the requirements of the role to better gauge compensation expectations._


##########
Salary negotiation can often be a stressful job, but it is important to
negotiate well and get the best salary offer. Since the employer has already
provided a range within which the company can pay you, you can make a demand
that’s on the higher side of the range.

If you are a fresher, do a background check. You must find out the starting
range of the salary for the position at similar companies. Try speaking to a
few recruiters as they would know how much people with your expertise are paid
in the industry. For more handy salary negotiation tips click here
<http://bit.ly/29uQPoP>


##########
“Can you give me a rough indication of either your current salary or the
salary level, you would expect in your next job? It does not have to be an
exact number, it can also be a range. If you can do this, I can give you an
indication of whether my client is thinking in the same range as you.”

I am a talent acquisition advisor for several European digital startups and
this is how I would phrase that question. And yes, you can be certain that I
will ask this question rather early in the process. The reason not being that
my clients only care about the pay-check of their future employee and cutting
a deal as low as possible, but because mutual alignment of expectations is
crucial for a good hiring process. Leaving salary negotiations for last can
lead to disappointment and a potential fail in signing a contract at all.

Hence, **a bad reply is;** ** _“I prefer to discuss this at a later stage”_**
**.** Trust, that the employer does not want to know your expectations to get
the upper hand in a negotiation situtation. First and foremost, they are
trying to determine if you can reach a mutual agreement down the line. If they
do end up taking advantage of you sharing your expectations upfront, then run.
Those companies you do not want to work for anyways.

 **What would a good reply then be?** First, I do not recommend you to share
your current salary. How your current employer values your skills and
experience does not necessarily say anything about how much your new employer
should pay you -assuming you are looking for a pay-rise of course. Before
going into the interview you should investigate the market, salary levels etc
to have enough information to be able to provide a credible answer. It could
be something down the line; **_“When I look at similar positions in the
industry, I can see that salaries range from X to Y. Given my experience with
X and Y in company A, my relevant responsibilities X and Y and the results I
created in company B, I believe I am in the senior end of the candidate pool
for the given position, why I would also expect more towards the upper end of
the industry standard. Further, this is the base salary and will of course
have to be viewed in relation to the rest of the compensation package and
whether this includes bonus, equity, pension etc. What is your client’s
thoughts on the compensation package?”._**

Based on a reply like above, I will always let the candidate know if they are
below, on par or above my client’s range. If they are above, I directly let
them know and ask if they are willing to go for less. If they are below, I
advise them to go back and look into their market value one more time. If on
par, that is great.

Keep in mind, that good employers care about entering into contractual setups,
where both they and the employee is happy with the compensation package. Don’t
be afraid to discuss salary.


##########
Just For An Example, If You expect your salary to be atleast 50,000 Just Say
like, “I am seeking a position that pays between 75,000 and 80,000 but I am
open to negotiate salary depending on benefits, bonuses, equity, stock options
and other opportunities.”

Remember few things!

  1.  **Aim Higher -** Once you know the average salary range for a position, consider padding your expectations. In most cases, employers are going to start you off at the lower end of the amount you provide. By aiming higher, you can make sure that, even if they offer the lowest number, you’ll still be making your target number. For example, if you want to make 45,000, don’t say you’re looking for a salary between 40,000 and 50,000. Instead, give a range of 45,000 to 50,000.
  2.  **Be Confident** \- You don't need an explanation for this. Right?
  3.  **Explain Your Reasoning** \- While you don’t need to get too detailed in explaining how you arrived at your salary expectations, it doesn’t hurt to share why you’re giving the number. Highlighting your experience or educational level can add additional justification for your salary, especially if you’re aiming for the higher end of the local average. Just be careful not to overshoot the amount too much or you could be considered overqualified.
  4.  **ALWAYS UPVOTE THE ANSWER IT GIVES US MOTIVATION** ** _._**[ ** _Kapil Thakur_**](/profile/Kapil-Thakur-126)


##########
Thanks for A2A.

Salary negotiations are THE most important part of interview process and your
career. Break up your salary negotiations in 5 - 6 sections and then rework
what is best for you. Before making final negotiations, have a market research
done on the available salary slab for the profile keeping in consideration the
company size, job responsibilities and your set of skills and experience. The
range of 5-8 LPA is already there in front of you. Do not squeeze yourself to
the ceiling limit. If you think you are worth more than that, ask for it. To
make salary negotiations simpler I would suggest to follow these simple steps.

Identify what’s important for you—for example, size of company, reputation,
challenge, work-life balance, job profile, and your future manager.  
Talk and discuss with as many people as you can who can provide relevant
information about your areas of interest concerning the company and the job.  
Compare the offer with your priorities by writing down your thoughts.  
Remember that it’s not the money that you make but the money you keep. Review
in details the package of company-paid benefits. You can think of unlimited
different items in such a package—from medical coverage , leave encashment, PF
, Bonus, House Rent, Company paid travel, to tuition reimbursement etc.  
Negotiate your best deal. Most companies expect you to do that. Show an
unusual level of excitement about the opportunity, but register disappointment
with the compensation.  
Look for long term benefits, like promotion, appraisals, higher education
within the company, etc.

Be flexible while negotiating and open to questions. There is no defined law
or procedure to raise the salary by 20 - 35 % of your current salary. If you
think you are less paid in current profile, this is the time to correct the
mistake.

Prove your worth and grab the opportunity !

All The Best !


##########
**Why interviewers ask for your current and desired salary**

When a recruiter asks you your current salary, that's the beginning of a
salary negotiation. The reason they ask about previous salary and desired
salary is pretty simple: They're trying to find the right number to offer if
you make it to that stage of the negotiation.

At the beginning of the negotiation, the company knows a lot more than you do:
they know what they're willing to pay for your position, what they're
currently paying other similarly qualified candidates, etc. What they _don't_
necessarily know is what _you_ are currently making and what salary you
require to do the job.

If you tell them your current or desired salary, you'll exacerbate that
informational disadvantage by giving them the last few bits of information
they didn't already have. Instead, keep that information to yourself and force
them to make an offer without the benefit of knowing your current or desired
salary. This forces them to evaluate the value your skill set and experience
would add to their company and offer you a consummate salary.

 **How to respond—Don't divulge your current salary or desired salary**

Most companies (usually the recruiter or hiring manager) will ask you what I
call "the dreaded salary question":

> “So where are you right now in terms of salary, and what are you looking for
if you make this move?”

This is really two questions in one: What's your current salary, and what's
your desired salary?

Give an answer like this:

> “I’m not really comfortable sharing that information. I would prefer to
focus on the value I can add to this company and not what I’m paid at my
current job.

>

> I want this move to be a big step forward for me in terms of both
responsibility and compensation.”

They may be persistent, but if you divulge either or both of these numbers,
you will likely cost yourself money.

**This forces them to name the first salary in the negotiation**

If you resist the dreaded salary question, then they will name the first
number in the negotiation. When they do, thank them for the offer and ask if
you can have some time to think it over. "Is it ok if I take a couple days to
think this over and talk to my family?" is a good way to buy a little time.

This is a business conversation, not an emotional one. The company knows what
they're willing to pay for your skill set and experience and you don't. By
resisting the dreaded salary question, you force them to reveal information
about the pay range for the job you're pursuing, and you can negotiate more
effectively.

I'm writing a book about this topic (salary negotiation). You can get "How to
ace your next interview"—a free chapter—at [How to ace your next
interview](http://fearlesssalarynegotiation.com/how-to-ace-your-next-
interview/?ref=quora&utm_campaign=quora+answers&utm_content=why+do+the+interviewer+asks+about+salary+expectations+and+previous+salaries+and+how+should+a+fresher+respond+to+that&utm_medium=social&utm_source=quora.com).
Or you can get the full book here: [Fearless Salary Negotiation: Get it
here](http://fearlesssalarynegotiation.com/get/?utm_campaign=quora+answers&utm_content=why+do+the+interviewer+asks+about+salary+expectations+and+previous+salaries+and+how+should+a+fresher+respond+to+that&utm_medium=social&utm_source=quora.com).
The chapter goes into a lot more detail about how to prepare for and excel at
interviews. Good luck!


##########
I think you would have to start doing some research in terms of what employees
in your job position, in *your* area of the country, generally earn.

Then, you need to keep a number in mind, but understand that companies often
increase your "worth" by adding benefits and incentives.

If you compare your salary in India to the general economy of India, and then
try to translate it onto an application, there will probably be no way to
describe that comparison.

Talk to other people in the profession, do some research (I think [ Glassdoor
– Get Hired. Love Your Job. ](http://glassdoor.com)) provides reviews and
salary structures, and put "negotiable" in the "Salary Requested" box.

In your cover letter, you would indicate you have just moved from another
country, are are anxious to start work. Sometimes, you may need to accept a
little less than you *feel* you are worth, just to get you into a company who
might notice your abilities and quickly advance your position or salary.


##########
