For an interview, you can mention the skills which you acquire while
travelling. I would answer as given:

  * Travelling helps me connect with new people, which helps to improve my interpersonal skills.
  * Based on the geography we meet people from various races, regions. It helps to understand their background and connect with them. This acquired skill helps when we work with a distributed global team.
  * Travelling makes me independent and build my confidence.
  * It's like **food for the soul** which is necessary to **de-stress** and then get back to my day job with new renewed vigour.
  * For a year full of work, projects, ratings, traffic, tensions **_travel is like a fresh dose of much needed oxygen!_**

 _And that's why it's my hobby._


##########
Traveling involves everything, adventure, fun, excitement and lots more. I
have selected traveling as my favorite hobby only because it gratifies all
requirements of a good hobby. I see traveling as an enthralling education. It
offers stimulant to my intellect, soul and body… why is traveling my fav hobby
? why m pursuing degree in travel and tourism management ? Bcoz in this course
all the things that make me happy-colours , Culture Fashion , Fitness, Food ,
Health ,History , Languages nd photography.here's the list Y i ???

  1. To learn
  2. Have adventures
  3. To be anonymous
  4. Because life is too short
  5. To feel more alive
  6. To know yourself
  7. To challenge yourself
  8. To experience culture
  9. To eat new food
  10. To do lot of shopping…
  11. To click more photos
  12. Appreciating your life…..when you’re mired in your daily life, it’s easy to lose sight of what you have. Your eyes aren’t open to what’s really special about your home.Exploring another place will give you a freshappreciation for your hometown, country and real life. Once you r back, u wil feel lucky to live where you do. You’ll see that there really is no place like home..


##########
You could expect following question in an interview. How often do you travel?
Have you ever been abroad in a foreign country. Do you plan your holidays
yourself? Do you use travel agency ?

To answer all this question please visit [Talking About Travel In
IELTS](https://tipsielts.com/talking-about-travel-in-ielts/). You could find
many **vocabularies about Travel as well as Phrasal Verbs for Travel.**

When you see a verb and a preposition together, that’s a phrasal verb. You
could read Sample paragraph about travel as well as Advantage of Long holiday.
after reading this you will say travelling makes me independent and build my
confidence.


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
I would explain that I am fascinated by meeting new people, and visiting new
places. I like to see what other people are doing, and how they are doing it.
I like discovering variety in culture, in arts and crafts, in design and in
technology. It helps me think outside the box of conventional thinking, and to
be creative in my own right. It makes life an adventure. That enthusiasm
carries over into whatever I do and whoever I meet.


##########
