I was once asked this question to which I replied “I believe X and Co. is a
firm that will contribute considerably to my personal growth. I think working
with and for some of the smartest and most passionate people in this industry
will teach me a lot and bring out the best in me”

To this, the interviewer replied “You’re one of the few candidates who talked
about what we can do for you, rather than the other way around. It is a
fantastic attitude to have and will take you places, because you will be a
valuable asset whenever you think your environment adds value to you”

Most people tend to focus on the company in question and talk about how they
want to _join_ the company which is “the most fabulous place in the world”.
What most interviewers are looking for is an answer to why you would _stay_ at
the firm for a long time, because it is costly to recruit and train an
employee. When you are looking to join, you focus on what you can do for the
company, while when you are looking to stay, you focus on what the company can
do for you.

Blending the two will be more valuable (and memorable) than what it would be
with the standard response.


##########
I have read up on your company’s web site and I really believe your company is
one that is going from strength to strength. I also went to social media and
asked people what is was like to work here and they all gave positive reports.
As a result I believe your company is one that is really going places and
treats its staff well. Although I have the skills you need, there are aspects
of the role that would make it a challenge. And I love a challenge. I really
want to deliver top quality work and thus be part of a company I can be proud
of.


##########
It is a great pleasure for me to answer this question.

Sir as I am a fresher. I am looking for a platform where I can give my best
and work with dedication to give a kick start to my career.

It's a great privilege for me to work in a reputed company like yours and you
are giving such a great opportunity for freshers like me seek for and I'm
accurate person who is in need for your guidance to improve myself and I'm
also having good problem solving techniques which will be very helpful for
your organization.

So I can give my best in return With maximum efficiency that will upscale you
are profits and upgrade my knowledge as well.

Thank you sir.


##########
There are a few ways to respond to this interview question, and while there
isn’t a one-size-fits-all approach, your answer definitely needs to get across
that you think the company is an awesome one to work for.

Be enthusiastic and make it obvious that you’ve done your homework. Indicate
you know specific details about the company. Something like, “This company is
the leader in the industry and with your new acquisition of XYZ, it positions
you for growth—and I would love to be part of this growing company!” Or
mention that you’re an avid follower of their social media page and you love
that the brand really engages with its customers and feels really connected to
the people it serves.

Also, weave into your answer how your skills, experience, and passion would be
an incredible match with the company. Something like, “In addition, my five
years of experience working for your direct competitor is a great fit! I love
this work and it seems like your company does, too.” Put your admiration for
the company and passion for the job itself front and center.


##########
There are a few things that help me decide where I work. Any place I work must
fulfill all these points:

  1. First and foremost, is the organisation or company contributing to making this world a better, sustainable and a united place. The company or organisation might be serving the interest of a small group of people, which is fine as long as it is not against the well-being of any other group or the environment. It is even better if the contribution made is towards the well-being of the masses or a group that has faced lot of injustices.
  2. The second most important thing is the working culture of the company itself. Is it a learning organisation? Does it value equality of women and men? Is the working culture based on coorperation rather than competition? Are decisions made through consultations? Does the company make effort to help their employees have a healthy work/family balance, specially for women?
  3. The third most important thing is, can I make a meaningful contribution to the work the company is doing? Will the work I am expected to do help me develop my own capabilities and is it what will motivate me every morning, no matter how challenging it gets?
  4. Finally, will the salary I will be receiving help me provide a simple and secure life for my family? Will I be able to provide a reasonable education for my children? Will I be able to save a little aside for future?

As per my research and conversations I had with some employees of this
company/organisation, I am convinced that you fulfill all four conditions. So,
unless you tell me that I am wrong, I am convinced that your company is the
right one for me. Now it is upto you to decide if I am right for your company.


##########
An ideal answer to this question (or any ‘Statement of Purpose’) proceeds in
three steps:

  1. What to do you want to do in future? (Eg. I want to help firms raise finances for their projects, I want to be great at programming, I want to make products which will help people)
  2. To make point 1 credible, you need to describe what you have done in past and how your life has been leading to point 1.
  3. This is your knockout punch: you need to express, how given your past and your future aspirations, the given company or the course (if you are applying for an MS/MBA/PhD) will help you _proceed rapidly_ towards your goal.

That you are the best candidate for the job/course has to be shown in points 1
and 2. All the best!


##########
