The following info and Q&A will help you in answering the question: “Why MBA?”

MBA is definitely useful for those who have interest in managing teams,
projects, businesses in the next 5–35 years.

As you become a senior in a company, you typically get into managerial roles.
When you are in managerial roles, you have to make your departmental budgets &
operate within the budgeted time & cost limits **to produce the desired
results** , manage your staff, manage hardware/machines & software, manage
finance, manage marketing & sales, manage production, manage projects… (This
is required to be done even if you are a manager in an R&D department or on
the shop floor. As a manager, you have to manage only your department.
However, as a CEO one has to manage all departments.)

During your MBA, you will get a very good overview of how a business is run
and how you have to manage all these aspects of business in an efficient &
effective manner.

You can do your MBA immediately after your degree or after gaining some
experience. Both the approaches are okay. (Some people do it immediately after
their degree as they are not confident of returning to do MBA after they start
working. Please note that there is nothing wrong in this approach at all.)

The following Q&A may help you when you go for your MBA interview:

\--------------------

You can combine your technical orientation with Business Management knowledge
gained through MBA and make use of the wider knowledge to effectively &
efficiently run teams/departments/regions/organizations (to get better results
in terms of quality, quantity, growth & profitability), not only in
Biotechnology sector but also in other sectors.

The following Q&A will help you understand the things better. Go for MBA only
if you feel like doing MBA.

Do let me know through a comment if your understanding has improved after
reading this.

\---------------

When you go for an MBA, you should be clear about why you want to do MBA.

In an MBA admission interview, your answer to ‘Why do you want to do MBA?’
could be on these lines:

“I plan to start my own business in the next 5 years ( **OR** you may like to
say, I want to work on making our family business grow using professional
management techniques **OR** I would like to be in the senior/top management
of my organization in the next 10/15 years.) I feel, in my professional life,
in addition to my technical knowledge, knowledge of Finance, Marketing,
Production, Distribution, HR and other functions will help me in producing
better results, in terms of growth  & profitability, in any organization. For
this purpose, I would like to learn in a systematic manner about finance,
marketing, sales, production, inventory control, human resources management
etc. I am very serious about this and I am sure that I will do well in MBA,
even better than my performance in the previous years as this is the area I
want to focus on.”.

If you are an engineer who has applied for MBA (HR) and you are asked ‘Why MBA
(HR)?’ then your answer could be on the following lines:

“I feel, Human Resource is a very important resource in any organization. In
the past, technology & finance only were considered important for the growth
of any organization. However, now the importance of Human Resource Development
and Management is also recognized as a very important area. I am specifically
interested in Human Resource Training, Development, Guidance and Motivation to
produce better results in any organization. I feel, Business Leaders like
Steve Jobs, Narayan Murthy, Nandan Nilekani must have been very good in HR
also and that is the reason why they could build very large teams & inspire
the teams to deliver much more than what they would have otherwise delivered
without their guidance and motivation.”

Follow me if you would like to receive professional career advancement advice
from me for faster growth in the corporate world.


##########
Hi

This is one of the most important question to be asked in any MBA interview.
It means: Do you think you have reached a specific juncture in your career,
getting ahead of which will require MBA. What use will you make this degree in
your career. So, you need to relate your goals/dreams which require an MBA and
connect them with what you have achieved so far. Generic answer, "I want to
learn more" is bad. It could be "I want to gain holistic business knowledge,
that includes Finance, marketing, Operations & HR, which will help me to add
more skills in myself and will become a valuable asset for my organization".
You need to quote certain instances in your past life to relate with this
answer. Basically, you have reached a certain point and going past it to
achieve your goal, you require some skills which can be attained by an MBA.

There are many other important questions like "Introduce Yourself", Why this
college", "Why this specialisation" etc.

For a detailed discussion on answering such questions, you can refer to my
video on Interview basics on my youtube channel **Edusaathi.**

* * *

This will give you a lot of possible answers to all such questions.

All The Best!!!


##########
Hell YES MBA is a prestigious degree but facts speak louder than manipulative
words !

Getting an education is an important part of success in today’s business
world. It’s competitive out there, and the more educated you are, the better
your chances of landing a good job are. That’s why getting a Masters of
Business Administration(MBA) is so important – **education leads to
opportunities.**

There are only a select few in the world who can drop out of school and go on
to make a significant contribution to the world. For the rest of us, education
is key. Take a look at three **real** reasons why an MBA degree is important
in the business world.

1\. **Increase your hiring opportunities.** Generally, the more education you
have, the better your career opportunities and choices are. A MBA graduate is
an extremely valuable asset to an organization. Because of the competition in
today’s business world, you may actually find that you need a MBA degree to
even have a first interview.

In school, MBA students learn different techniques and skills that can help
businesses. Some companies plan to hire MBA students, maybe even paying for
current employees to go back to school and get a MBA. You know that if a
company is willing to pay for employees to get the degree, it’s certainly an
asset.

2\. **Get paid more.** With a MBA degree in hand, you can actually demand a
higher salary. According to a 2007 Corporate Recruiters Survey, employers are
willing to pay significantly more for job candidates with an MBA degree. The
survey suggests that companies will pay up to 84 percent more. It is hard work
to earn a MBA degree and your salary certainly should reflect that.

3\. **Build your network.** One of the really valuable parts of getting a MBA
degree is the networking opportunities. When you are studying for a MBA, you
are with people from all walks of life, all trying to accomplish the same
goal. These are the future leaders in the business world. You can connect with
people who may one day lead corporations. These relationships become very
valuable for you, as a professional, but also for your future company. The
relationships you forge in the MBA classroom will get you into groups and
organizations that will certainly benefit your future employer.

Going back to school, for any reason, is always a good idea. Getting a MBA
will increase your chances of finding a great job with a solid company. **Are
you ready to be the next great leader in the business world?**

* * *

In the current competitive job scenario, choosing a promising degree program
is vital to ensure a promising career. The following post talks about the
importance of MBA degree to boost your career prospects. Read on…

The aim of all the students at the time of completion of course is to get
employment in one of the best companies in the job market. Recruiting
companies expect their employees to be skilled in all the different aspects of
company affairs, one of the important requirements being managerial skills.
Therefore, the candidates with an MBA degree are preferred for various job
roles in different industries.

Those who choose to pursue an MBA degree can be sure of certain things. These
include:

 **HIGH SALARIES**

The compensation package for MBA graduates is attractive. Wider career
opportunities in different fields of work such as banking, consulting, and
general management offer high salaries.

 **MORE CAREER AVENUES**

MBAgraduates can enjoy better career options. Some of them include Finance,
Marketing, Operations, Human Resource, International Business, and IT. There
are several popular job roles available for MBA graduates such as Business
Manager, Human Resource Specialist, Accounts Executive, and Public Relations
Specialists.

 **NETWORKING OPPORTUNITY**

During the MBA course, internship, or job, an MBA graduate gets immense
opportunity to interact and communicate with business professionals. The
typical managerial job role involves business meetings, business travels, and
communication, which offer an opportunity to strengthen your network.

 **INCREASED DEMAND**

Management has become a vital part of any organization- big or small. Hence,
top recruiting companies demand professionals with excellent managerial and
leadership skills. An MBA degree thus becomes a ticket to a promising career.

 **DEVELOPS CRITICAL THINKING**

Case studies, business presentations, and other curriculum involved in an MBA
program develops critical and analytical thinking in MBA graduates. These
skills help the professionals in managing business issues and decision making
by understanding the critical side of all the aspects.

 **INTERNATIONAL EXPOSURE**

MBA graduates enjoy lucrative job placements across the world. National and
multinational companies always look for fresh and experienced MBAs with
excellent academic record.

 **SELECTION OF THE BEST MBA COLLEGE**

Before getting into the act, it is vital to [find a right MBA
institute](http://googleweblight.com/i?hl=en-
IN&tg=101&u=http://mba.shiksha.com/) in terms of curriculum, faculty,
placement, location, and fee. The study abroad options are easily available
nowadays. Studying abroad offers great advantages of global learning exposure
and international employment opportunities. However, before choosing any one,
enquiry must be made with all the institutes for important details such as fee
structure and scholarship offered for foreign students. This helps you to
shortlist the college as per your requirement.

 **THINGS TO REMEMBER WHEN PLANNING TO STUDY ABROAD**

 **SELECTION OF COUNTRY/LOCATION**

There are several popular study abroad destinations such as the US, Canada,
Australia, and the UK. In addition, there are endless options for MBA
universities and colleges. However, not all the locations and colleges offer
high quality education at the international levels. When developed countries
are selected, different cultures and lifestyle can be experienced. Hence, your
choice of study location should be as per the scope of field you wish to
study.

 **EDUCATIONAL EXPENSES AND COST OF LIVING**

Fee is another important factor that supports your MBA program. Hence,
educational expenses need to be checked to ensure if the overall cost of
education falls within your estimated budget. Usually, the cost of education
in foreign locations is higher than that in home country. Hence, it is
important to consider important factors before making the final move.

An MBA degree equips students with knowledge that shapes up their career path.
Moreover, it offers an insight into a wide range of career options that you
would have not ever thought about.

So, pursue an MBA degree and explore a dynamic career.

* * *

 **FOOTNOTES:-**

[ **Importance of MBA Degree in Shaping Up Your
Career**](http://googleweblight.com/i?grqid=mWUz2bcn&hl=en-
IN&u=http://www.thedailymba.com/2014/08/06/importance-of-mba-degree-in-
shaping-up-your-career/)

[ **The Benefits & Importance of an MBA Degree in the Business
World**](https://blogs.uww.edu/uwwcobe/2011/10/the-benefits-importance-of-an-
mba-degree-in-the-business-world/)

* * *

 **~Ahad**


##########
**_You can learn that from a guy named Matt._**

In 2013, an undergraduate student named Matt Ross, from San Diego State
University, wrote the following Cover Letter to an Investment Banking firm:

>  _I am aware that it is highly unusual for undergraduates from average
universities like SDSU to intern at Duff and Phelps, but nevertheless I was
hoping you might make an exception._

>

>  _I won’t waste your time inflating my credentials...the truth is I have no
unbelievably special skills or genius eccentricities, but I do have a near
perfect GPA and will work hard for you._

>

>  _He added that he would be happy just to 'fetch coffee, shine shoes or pick
up laundry' and will work for 'next to nothing' just to be around
professionals in the industry._

 _This is Matt Ross:_

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-10f68cfbd1db7647551495ce3403752e)

The email quickly went viral and within half an hour Ross was taking calls
from reporters and multiple employers looking to interview him. Eventually, he
landed a job at Duff & Phelps, an Investment Bank.

* * *

 ** _There are three important lessons from his cover letter for me_** **:**

  1.  ** _Interviewers look for a refreshing angle to your answers_**. You don’t need to be bold like Matt (and in most contexts, being extremely bold won’t work).
  2. You need to **_communicate VALUE in a humble manner_**. Notice the 2nd paragraph: “ _I have no unbelievably special skills or genius eccentricities,_ ** _but I do have a near perfect GPA_** _”. He communicated clearly that he is NO genius, BUT he has a solid GPA (this is an irrefutable fact). You can’t make your entire letter/answer fluff; you need to have some substance._
  3. You need to offer value. Notice the last paragraph: Matt has implicitly conveyed the point that he clearly understands that nature of an internship at an IB firm and is willing to do the grunt work.

* * *

You might dismiss this as a one-off “exceptional case” that went viral.
However, if you watch my
[_interviews_](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4D8GbPR0OwRCLbyRaCjY4A) with
top MBA school admits, you will see this pattern over and over again.

Best of luck! **You can send me your further queries,** **
__**[**_here_**](http://www.mymbajourney.com/)

 **Footnotes:**

1\.
[http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/...](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2263159/Matthew-
Ross-The-student-special-skills-sent-best-cover-letter-Wall-Street-bosses-
didnt-tell-hes-sport-star-athlete.html#ixzz5GlwbaHsC)

2\. ['Brutally honest' cover letter leads to
job](http://money.cnn.com/2014/07/30/investing/intern-cover-letter/index.html)


##########
“If you don’t know what to do in life, do an MBA!”

I’ve heard this incredibly unsatisfactory stock response from multiple people,
coupled with “You don’t learn anything useful at B School, dude!”

I made sure to verify in business school if this was actually true.

What I found was that if people without a purpose go to business school, it
_doesn’t_ imply business school itself has no purpose.

One big reason for me to go to business school was to learn the tools of
business, across the board. As a business professional, you could of course
learn these on the job - but there is rarely time and expertise to really
learn well.

I see the utility of an MBA extremely starkly in my role as an investor in
businesses. I am extremely comfortable understanding TAT issues in operations,
working capital constraints in finance, customer segmentation in marketing,
employee incentive structures in human capital and so on. I just paid
attention in business school (16 months!) and I will find this useful for
life.

While you may not understand how to practically run businesses by reading
theory, you will definitely know what _not_ to do having understood the right
frameworks to run a business.

If you could learn so much in just 16 months, why wouldn’t you take it up?


##########
In my opinion, interviewers ask this question to gauge if you understand the
career implications of an MBA, and if those fit your aspirations or if you are
simply doing it for the heck of it - as part of a herd mentality or for the
weight it carries on your resume.

The best way to answer this question is to ask yourself the same and gather
your thoughts around it. Keep a few long term goalless/aspirations clear.

  1. Know that MBA is a management degree, so try to be clear how from your current role, which maybe be more of a doer in a silo kind of a role, you intend to switch/move to a management/strategy/wider perspective role in the long run. MBA will give you the exposure and hence the impetus.
  2. You can also mention any weaknesses/trait aspirations you have in particular, such as test yourself in a team/leadership scenario, produce results under stress etc that an MBA typically involves
  3. If you are interested in a particular are such as finance/marketing/operations make sure you put it across, backing it up with habits/hobbies/activities you have pursued to substantiate that claim. This will help you elucidate how an MBA will you focus your career and become a specialist from a generalist.
  4. People often make the mistake of criticizing their current job/role/industry in the process of explaining why an MBA interests them. Don't make that mistake. Don't make MBA look like a solution to your problems - instead, show that your inclinations lie elsewhere and MBA will help you grow in that direction.
  5. Make sure you also answer "why now and why not few years earlier/later". It shows clarity of thought and career focus on your part and justifies fit better.
  6. Remember that as much as an MBA is about teamwork, classroom discussions, projects and assignments, it is also about self-discovery. One of my biggest takeaways from the course was a better understanding of who I am as an individual - my strengths and weaknesses in various scenarios, my areas of interest, etc. Showing that you understand this and want to put yourself through that grind should reflect well on the interviewer.
  7. The interviewer might also ask you about your perspective on money and salary hike post MBA and why/why not that's a reason to pursue it. Mull over it now so that you can give a thought through answer.

Overall, be honest about everything you say and you should be good :)


##########
