**EDIT: I misinterpreted as I skimmed over the** ** _“height”_** **element of
the question. :(**

I’ve heard a lot of people say jump out. That makes pretty fun sense, until
you realize the real answer is: there would be no blender left to kill you.

My logic — (someone show me how this is incorrect):

Based on conservation of mass/energy, if I were immediately shrunk down to the
size of a nickel it would mass destruct the whole area.

An average human is 65kg. That’s 65,000 grams.

A nickel is 5 grams.

So 65,000g/5g leaves you with 13,000.

1 (the nickel worth of mass you would be) / 13,000 = .00007

65,000*.00007 =4.55

Let’s subtract your new potential mass from your current mass.

65,000–4.55 = 64,995.45 (that difference is really not important in the grand
scheme but, here we are)

This means that you have 64,995.45 grams of mass being converted to energy if
you immediately shrink to the size of a nickel.

Those grams if converted to Joules would be 5,841,499,728,182,989,408 Joules

(Basically 6 Quintillion)

For reference, a firecracker going off is about 500 Joules of energy

That means you have about 6 Quintillion Joules / 500 Joules worth of
firecrackers going off at once.

That’s like 12 Trillion firecrackers.

There is not a blender to put you in. There is not a room to put the blender
in. There is not… You get the idea.

That’s why my answer is: there is no blender.


##########
Liquids start acting differently when moving through very very small tubes so
your smallest blood vessels probably wouldn’t work right and your tissues
would be starved of oxygen including parts of your brain and you may suffer an
almost instant string of strokes.

Your eyes are shaped so as to work with the volume of fluid and tissue in them
with a specific refractive index so you might spend your last minute unable to
focus your eyes properly.

The volume of various organs is reduced and just as a human scaled up to the
size and mass of godzilla would collapse with shattered shinbones as the
membranes in your body are scaled down it seems likely many would no longer be
able to handle the stresses put on them and meanwhile the volume of some
organs like the liver is probably no longer sufficient to keep my now scaled
down body going.

So what would I do? collapse to the floor, half blind, suffering strokes
possibly choking on my own blood and if I survive that I’d probably go into
organ failure shortly afterwards.

The blades might be a mercy.


##########
I did something similar to [Luca Petty](/profile/Luca-Petty)’s answer, but my
experience wasn’t out of choice, but rather out of necessity, and I worked 10
- 12 hours a day for about 6 months, not 30 days.

 _I’ve worked for multiple agencies in senior roles in my career, and I won’t
be clarifying which agency I’..._


##########
I like the answer given in the movie “The Internship”. If you are small
enough, and you are the only thing inside the blender, lie down on the ground
in a way that the blades don’t touch you and just wait. No blender works
forever and even if you wait long, you will survive.  
If there are other things inside, unless you can climb them, it makes
everything a lot harder to survive, as debris would hit you and probably throw
you around, which would turn you just like any meat inside the blender, your
best choice would be similar to the first, but you’d have to hold onto the
pole that holds the blade in place in a fetal position, making sure the blade
doesn’t hit your hips, but you are gonna have to hang on and pray it is fast,
or you might drown when everything turns liquid.

If your hands are small enough, you can try to temper with the blade to make
it useless. Trying to break the glass most probably would not work thanks to
your reduced mass.  
You can also try to put your back against the ground and push the tips of the
blades up with your legs to bend them with the least resistance and try to
create a void space on the sides of the blender glass, which would save you in
both cases of empty and full blender, but you have to be strong enough for
that.

In the end, the only choice is, try to find a way to survive, preferably
turning the blender useless, try to find a way to get out. Either use your new
size as a perk, when you find out how to survive being that tiny or try to
acquire help to get to your original size.

If you do survive and get out, at least enjoy a good “giant” dessert before
anything, you deserve it and giant food is one of the best perks of being
really tiny.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-32789663a2decb28728409180650e057)


##########
I haven’t read every answer…but enough to single out the “almost complete”
explanations regarding mass and density.

When I was 19…I sat down on a train…and the man next to me (a high school
teacher) became interested in my appreciation of science. He then asked me:
“do you know why insects…can jump so high..and an elephant can’t?” I am
embarrassed to this day to admit I could not figure it out.

“Well…he said…as we examine animals with muscles and, in thought, “shrink
them”… we see that their mass decreases by a negative power of 3, because they
are three dimensional objects. BUT, the muscle power depends upon the CROSS
SECTION of the fibers in those muscles. This decreases only by the negative
power of 2 ! In effect, the ratio of muscle power to mass…INCREASES as the
animal shrinks.”

I never forgot that…and my lesson (I always try !) is to examine a puzzle from
all angles and trust in physics!


##########
Jump. Strength of muscles goes as their cross section, which would go as
square of height. The distance over which they act go proportional to height.
So Force X distance go as the cube of height. But mass also goes as the cube
of height. So, miniature you and standard sized you can give your mass the
same impetus of momentum per kilogram. Both of you can raise your center of
mass by the same amount by jumping. If full sized you can jump upward by 50cm
then so can little you.


##########
