Assuming you haven't seen the other applicants' CV's and don't know what their
level of experience is, this is the approach I would advise you to take:

I focus on **personality** after all, they may have the same level of
**experience** as you do, but they probably don't have the same kind of
personality _.._ Plug your personality based skills, for instance: your
**strong work ethic** – you get the job done whether it means staying putting
in extra hour

Your **high level of resilience** ; if you fail to come up with the right
solution nine times, you won't be discouraged and will try a tenth time,

Also highlight that you have strong **decision making skills** at the time of
crisis..Try to point out any past experience regarding this.

And your overall **positive attitude** : you see opportunities where others
see limitations and you remain optimistic, never letting failure interfere
with your will to do a good job.

Try to emphasise that you are a **team player** and you mix socially..You’r
very co-operative and co-ordinating with your fellow employees.

Emphasise your **positive personality traits** , relevant to the job and
you'll impress the employer…

P.S- Don’t fake out in certain areas or rather boast of your past skills or
present traits as it might lead to your disqualification..As the interviewer
always looks for a cool & composed guy..Don’t blabber too much…


##########
Well as I understand this is the job that's advertised:

'You're looking for X person with X years of experience in X, Y and Z' with X
qualifications from this kind of background....(keep repeating V.QUICKLY the
requirements).

 _[Demonstrating your knowledge of the role]_

* * *

So like all of the people in final interview. I can do the job.

 _[Demonstrating that you don't want to give a generic answer]_

But what's my USP?

 _[Creating a build up]_

* * *

Now smile. In this kind of manner:

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-e149938d169f8d17d8097e3477cae4db-c)

The interviewer should smile back

_[Engaging in mirroring and providing humour and light-heartedness]_

* * *

Well of course I could repeat some sports/extra-curricular based achievement I
have I know.

_[Demonstrating you know largely what others focus upon]_

But I know that's going to be forgotten within a week for all of us

 _[Demonstrating your recognition of the transience of blowing one's own
trumpet]_

* * *

Dude

 _[Changing the paradigm from formal to informal to introduce the
corresponding point]_

* * *

We are going to laugh everyday we do this job. And the job will still get done
excellently. Man; I want to work and make work fun; and that since I'm going
to be here 10 hours a day _[Demonstrating you will work hard]._ I want to have
a blast!

* * *

So laughter. That's my USP :)

 _[The punchline]_

* * *

To get careers advice check out my [FREE EBOOKS in my
profile](/profile/Deepak-Shukla-7) :)


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
