[My most viewed answer](/Has-anyone-ever-appeared-for-IIM-interview-without-
any-preparation/answer/Krishna-Bharadwaj-34) describes how I attended IIM
interviews without preparation, and now I'm being asked how one should prepare
for an interview. I'm beginning to sense something odd... well, here goes.

* * *

 **If you want them to show interest in you, you need to show interest in
them.** The best way to show interest in them is to do your research before
the interview. Learn as much about the company as possible. Find out what
responsibilities your job description entails, and **evaluate whether you
would hire you for the role**. If you have questions about the company or the
job, keep them ready. They are a good way to show you've done your groundwork.

Familiarise yourself with the CV you gave the company; you do not want to
wonder what the interviewer is talking about, only to realise soon after that
it was a point you had mentioned on your own CV.

Before the interview day, make sure you know the venue well. If you're new to
the city, try to visit the venue to get an idea of how long the commute will
be; under no circumstances should you be late. In fact, a good idea is to
arrive five to ten minutes before the scheduled reporting time. **Punctuality
is highly valued.**

Unless the company has explicitly specified a casual dress code for the
interview, play it safe. If no dress code has been specified for the
interview, wear formals, properly cleaned and pressed of course. If you are
comfortable with just formal trousers and a shirt, feel free to skip the coat.
However, be prepared to answer any questions that might arise about why you
chose to. Even though we are all taught never to judge a book by its cover,
the hard reality is that we eventually do so, whether consciously or not.
Hence, appearance is quite important. Do you really want to miss out on that
great job just because you neglected to polish your shoes?

* * *

The previous part covered only generic interview tips. You will however need
to put in additional preparation that depends on the role.

Hope this helps. Good luck!


##########
![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-5f942b564c1abe22e3dded4807d306af-c)

Nervous? Confused? Tensed? Well here are some tried and tested interview tips
that will surely give you the much needed edge!

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-7ed04340ffdb55295caf2ddbdb3cf5a0-c)

 **Before the interview:** Must dos before an interview

 **1\. Know about the company:** Spend time to know about the company’s
background and various activities of the company. Knowledge about the company
will make you look serious for the job. Also if you have time, read about the
competitors.

 **Pro Tip:** Set up **Google News Alerts** for the company and industry you
are interviewing for. It shall give you timely news alerts and much needed
information  & talking points! You can also refer to Social media, website,
google search etc. to get more information. Also you can search for
people/friends on LinkedIn who are already working in the company and talk to
them.

 ** _2._** **Prepare a paragraph describing you:** Generally, the first
question asked during the interview is _“tell us about yourself”._ ** __**
Prepare a crisp answer beforehand which is beyond your resume. The interviewer
has your resume and this is the time to excite the interviewer with
information which is not on it. Talking about some key highlights of your
career, education background or your passion can be a good idea. **Practice
this part in-front of a mirror or with your friends and learn to sum it up in
less than 60 seconds.**

 _3._ **Pen down your strengths and weakness:** Preparing a list of around 5-6
strengths is not enough. Recall critical incidents of your life where you
leveraged your strengths to achieve an objective. This will help the
interviewer to remember better, make your answers look natural and will also
leave a good impression. Present your weakness in a very intelligent way,
never say things which might work against you. It is good to be honest, but
not at the cost of your dream job. Never forget to add that you are working on
your weakness. Avoid stating very obvious strengths e.g. “ _I am very
hardworking_ ”, or “ _I am very efficient_ ”. Personalizing and creating a
story around your traits with real life incidents is the trick. Convince the
interviewer by presenting some real life stories validating your points.

 ** _4._** **Try to fit in the role:** One of the most common question which
is asked during an interview is “ ** _Why should we select you????_** ”.
Prepare an answer and write it down. Write all your strengths and your prior
experience and try to relate how you will benefit the company. Keep in mind
your role in the company and write accordingly. E.g. If you are giving an
interview for the post of a HR, you can mention all your prior experience,
internships in the field. Mentioning about your soft skills, Communication
skills, negotiation and problem solving skills, conflict management ability,
Multi-tasking etc. will also add weight.

 **5\. Do a quick research on the possible/actual interviewer’s:** If you get
to know about the interviewers, even as late as 10 minutes before the
interview; do a quick search on their profile using LINKEDIN. See if you find
any talking points or common ground. It can be of immense help in building a
personal connect during the interview. You can search on LinkedIn, Google
search if they were covered in the news lately.

6\. **Prepare according to your job profile** : It is very important to
mention your key skills according to the requirement of the job profile you
have mentioned. E.g. While applying for the job of a blogger, write about your
vocabulary, blogging history, love for language etc. Consider the skill sets
the recruiter is looking for and customize your resume to ensure those skills
standout. This is very important in walk-in-interviews where your CV is not
screened before.

 **7\. Read your resume before interview:** You should **** be able to justify
every line written on your resume. Never mention something just to impress the
interviewer. Mentioning in your hobbies that you love reading, and on the
other side you can’t even recall the name of a single book will be curtains
for that interview!

 **During the interview:** Ensure you don’t miss out on these 7 hacks during
an interview **:**

 **8\. Be alert and active:** Your interview starts the minute you enter the
office/ college and are waiting for your turn in the reception area. The way
you talk, interact and greet people adds a lot. You are noticed at every
second. Be nice to all the employees you meet and greet everyone, you may not
know who will take your interview. On entering the room, open the door firmly
and walk confidently.

 **9\. A firm handshake and right body posture:** A firm handshake is a sign
of confidence, follow this while you are wishing your interviewer and maintain
a straight back pose. Never cross arms while sitting. It is a sign that you
are not interested. Also avoid playing with your hair or fidgeting with any
accessory.

 **10\. Create a personal connect:** If given a chance **** try to start the
interview by treating it as a friendly conversation. If you can create a
personal connect in the first 60 seconds it can be a game changer. Imagine the
kind of positive liking and more importantly recall the interviewer will have
if you are able to connect with him during the interview.

 **13\. Listen first and try to ask your own questions:** Be a good listener.
Understand the question first and try to answer only the part which is asked!
Try to be short and crisp otherwise, you may invite cross questioning. In-fact
try to be more inquisitive and ask your own questions. This can change the
flow of the interview and you get a chance to drive a couple of discussion
points. Talk to them about your queries or build a question around the
discussion in progress.

 **11\. Avoid using technical terms:** If you will say a technical word, be
ready for firing of the questions which may leave you confused. Never initiate
the use of a technical word in case you don’t have the required information.
Interviewer will generally start with the technical game, once you will give
them a chance to. They will be invariably be smarter than you on this front so
be cautious treading that path.

 **12\. Self-motivation can be helpful:** During the **** interview, there can
be some low points. You might feel that it’s over. But wait… Take a minute.
Remember all your achievements and tell yourself that you can do it. This
might help you to feel energetic again.

 **After the interview:** 5 things not to miss out on post the interview

 **13\. Use your network or build one:** Post the interview reach out to your
interviewer on platforms and LinkedIn and tell them you would like to stay in
touch. Be very cautious, don’t act if you are trying to influence them.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-00e05d3b9748ed656a0f1252b4fba9e8-c)

Follow these simple hacks and leave a better impression.

 **For more Tips and Tricks you can refer to the following link :**

[ **21 Tips & Tricks You'll Ever Need To Ace Your Job
Interview**](https://www.mindler.com/blog/job-interview-tips/)


##########
**You should take care of these things before going for an Interview :-**

  *  **Well dressed**
  *  **Body language**
  *  **Confidence**
  *  **Well mannered**
  *  **Decent looks ( Short hairs and shaved face)**
  *  **Sitting posture**
  *  **Make an eye-contact**
  *  **keep Smiling face**

 **Avoid these things that can kill interview :-**

  *  **Sweating**
  *  **Low confidence**
  *  **Slouching**
  *  **Touching your face**
  *  **Chewing gum**
  *  **Looking in the distance**
  *  **Playing with pen or fingers**
  *  **Brushing back your hair**
  *  **Fidgeting in a chair**

 **Here some Common Interview questions with tips :-**

  *  **Tell me a little about yourself?**

A most common question. The psychology behind the question is the interviewer
probes into your personality. It is a very open-ended question and needs
careful handling. A well-balanced answer would have the elements of your
hobbies, your qualification, and your interests.

You must start with little personal choices like volunteering nature, interest
in book reading, puzzle solving and then transition towards your key
qualification skills that make you a perfect candidate for the posting. Talk
about your strengths like responsible, excellent interpersonal skills that
help in team building and maintaining a cordial work atmosphere. Quote some
examples of experience that tell more about your character relevant to the
work atmosphere. A perfect ratio proportion of personal and professional
information is bound to make a complete score on this question.

  *  **What do you know about the company?**

Finding an answer to this question do you good in the interview as well as
gives you a complete insight into the company and the kind of work culture and
ethics it follows. How are you supposed to draft an answer? Check out the
website in detail. Each organization has the mission, upcoming projects, last
year’s growth and more such important facts showcased on the website.

Depending upon third party information like press releases and LinkedIn helps
you build a strong base to this question and ensures you do your research
thoroughly. Follow them on Twitter and Facebook to keep yourself posted on all
updates.

  *  **What were your responsibilities in last company?**

This question comes your way because the interviewer wants to know your actual
work experience that is off your resume. Highlight your previous
responsibilities in the light of current job requirements. Span your
responsibilities right from the start and showcase how you grew personally and
professionally.

Your answer does not need to revolve around daily chores and tasks but focuses
on the headline responsibilities. Your accomplishments while handling the role
in last company must make a pointer in the interview. Approach the question
with a focused answer that covers the primary responsibilities and how you
took extra responsibilities beyond the scope of your job role.

  *  **What did you like or dislike about your previous job?**

Read carefully; it can be a trap. Talking negatively about your previous job
is a complete ‘No.' The interviewer is merely trying to judge your attitude
towards any workplace issue on the basis of your answers.

No organization wants to hire someone who keeps grudges over pity issues and
let them impact the workplace environment. Answer the question with a positive
outlook. You should be highlighted how you liked the competitive and
progressive spirit, leadership and mentors that helped you grow personally and
professionally. Speaking about the dislikes, you can tackle it by answering it
in the positive light. You can say the role seemed to be less challenging as
you grew your skills that edged you to look for a change.

 **I would like to suggest one of the best job portal**[
**Worknrby**](https://www.worknrby.com/) **.**

To know more about click here
[https://www.worknrby.com/intervi...](https://www.worknrby.com/interview-tips)


##########
Cracking job interview as a fresher is a daunting task. You do not have any
practical experience, skills to showcase or references to give..

So what to do? Make the best use of whatever you have..

  1. Few things you have to do before interview or during your academics - Such as taking trainings, doing part time job, participation in events, certification etc.. As these things can give your candidature edge over others..
  2. Make an outstanding CV - OK so you don't have much to write in your CV, still whatever knowledge or experiencs you have gathered, you need to put that in your CV. And modify it every time you apply for a new job to make it look in match with job description..[http://thecareersailor.com/2016/...](http://thecareersailor.com/2016/08/29/make-perfect-resume-first-job-search/)
  3. Prepare for common interview question in advance..[http://thecareersailor.com/categ...](http://thecareersailor.com/category/interview-tips/)
  4. Keep body language and communication skills in check during interview.
  5. Do extensive research about the company and role. Most freshers fail to do so.
  6. Project yourself as a fast learner. As this is the most coveted skill employers need in a fresher

Read these for even better understanding-

[http://thecareersailor.com/2018/...](http://thecareersailor.com/2018/04/09/tips-
crack-interview-fresher/)

[http://thecareersailor.com/2017/...](http://thecareersailor.com/2017/06/20/tips-
get-hired-fresher/)

You might like this
also-[http://thecareersailor.com/2018/...](http://thecareersailor.com/2018/10/03/salary-
negotiation-as-a-fresher-tips/)


##########
To crack an Interview is just a fraction of second. YES IT IS. It takes only a
second to hit the mind of the recruiter. Whether you hit it in positive or in
negative manner.

There is no “FULL_PROOF” method to actually crack the interview. Most people
say it’s all upon your luck. Well ! I say you make your own luck. Many people
will even suggest you to dress properly, behave nicely, be polite, bla bla bla
bla . . . . and so on.

Yes those things do matter but for only for filling the gaps of your interview
time. Unless you are getting interviewed directly by Onsite client or for
managerial position.

 **Phase 1: Tell me about yourself :**

Here the interviewer don’t want to hear your “FABOULUS LIFESTORY”. They are
only interested in a very small introduction of you followed by the
professional expertise. But don’t go in depth. A mere 4-5 lines with a quick
insight to your expertise level will do. People either blabber about their
personal/private life or just keep on saying things on which they are good at.
Listen ! Yes they need to know all those things. But only in small amount. You
don’t serve the main course at the beginning. You have to only serve
appetizer/starters. Hope you got my point.

 **Phase 2: Technical Questions:**

This part is totally on how you portray your skills. Some people answer
correctly but still don’t get selected because the interviewer might have a
different answer running in his mind. Whereas few just play around and still
get selected. Here comes the mind trick. You have to read the interviewer’s
mind, body language and their gestures. The moment you feel they are losing
interest, pause a bit and ask if you are going in the right direction or you
need to explain it in a different way. This way you can save yourself from
being ignored and then rejected. Remember that it’s all in the mind that
matters and not your academic numbers. Convince him/her and bang on! You are
hired !

 **Phase 3: We will call you. You can leave for the day**

Interview is over. You will be forgotten the moment you step out of that
office. But you don’t want that right ? Make a lasting impression. Before you
get up, the recruiter might ask you if you have any questions or if he/she
doesn’t asks you then there is no wrong in asking that if you allow me can I
ask a question. Now what to ask ? I will help you out. Ask him/her about the
role or you can also ask about the work culture or you can also ask when you
can expect a next call. This will imply that you are interested in the job and
you are not another fellow who has come to try his/her luck.

 ** _Pro tip:_** Be ready to explain your final year project. Take out a pen
and paper and draw a plain diagram to explain it ( _but don’t take too much
time drawing the flowchart. Max you should take 30 sec else you are gonna lose
it_ )

 **Good Luck for your future !!**

 _Like_[ _Corporate Mantra_](https://www.facebook.com/Corporate-
Mantra-493445641170642/) _for tips and tricks of the Corporate life._

 _Visit the blog (_[ _The Corporate
Chanakya_](https://corporatemantra.quora.com) _) to read true and mindboggling
5 minutes of the unheard personals :)_


##########
Appearing for a job interview for the very first time can be a nerve racking
experience, to say the least! You are a novice, fresh in the industry with no
substantial experience other than a few internships that may not count at all.
Face-to-face interaction with your employer is your only chance to make a
lasting impression and get you hired for your first job.

But how can one do this? What we have here for you are the 10 tips that will
help you face and successfully crack your first job interview.

 **1\. Know The Company - Know About The Business**

This goes without saying! This is what any employer expects from you and they
aren’t wrong! Research well about the company you are applying for and know
their aim, mission, vision, values and functions. Using this information in
your answers will create the right impression in front of your employer. The
research is the first and foremost task that you need to do before appearing
in any interview.

 **2\. The Introduction - Watch What You Say!**

“Tell me about yourself” is every employers favorite question! So be confident
in your approach while you tell them about yourself.

 **3\. What Can You Offer?**

Thoroughly know the job title you are applying for, the responsibilities and
why you are fit for the job. Remember a wide spectrum of opportunity. so, for
every point that you make, try to have an instance where you have used that
quality.

 **4\. Act Confident Without Hesitation**

This can be quite a task considering it’s the first time you are sitting for
an interview but you have to pull off this lie. You have to act confident and
make the employer feel that you have it all together and perfectly fit the
job. Only confidence can get you there without much hassle.

 **5\. Never Lie In Your Resume**

Lying can backfire! The person sitting in front of you has ample experience of
interviews and can easily know when you are faking it. So keep it real and
only write in your CV, what you have actually achieved.

 **6\. Dress Well**

"Job interview prepration" is not as formidable as it sounds. No one can
stress enough on the fact that in case of an interview, ‘The first impression
is the last impression.’ Put on your best clothes (formal of course!) and look
neat when going for an interview for the first time or otherwise.

 **7\. Have Your Questions Ready**

Be observant and notice what’s going around you. Once the interviewer is done
asking you questions, it is going to be your turn. Return the favor! Ask if
you have any questions about the company and the role they are offering you.
Just make sure they don’t come across as offensive or rude.

 **8\. Be Eager To Learn**

It’s okay to not know everything! If you get stuck on some questions and don’t
know what to say, politely let the interviewer know. But also make it a point
to ask what the answer was once they are done with all the questions. This
shows your eagerness to learn, which is often considered useful from an
employer point of view.

 **9\. Deep Breathe**

More than anything else, it’s the anxiety that ruins most interviews. Just
before entering the room, take a few deep breaths and relax your nerves. Trust
me, It always helps!

 **10\. Thank You Mail**

Whether or not you are hired, make sure you send the employer a thank you mail
after the interview telling them how glad you are to get this opportunity and
how you hope to get selected for the same.

So get going and all the best for your job interview preparation!

source: [Shine.com : One Stop Destination To Find Your Dream Job on the
Go](http://shine.com)

happy reading!


##########
The first and foremost thing which you need to consider is that you need to be
prepared for the aptitude test/online test as it is the first step which is
involved in cracking any interview. No companies hire freshers without having
this round as they need to check your mental ability and decide whether you
are a positive thinker or not. One should be strong in their basics and
logical thinking ability.

The next round which most of the companies may have in their interview process
is group discussion/debate in which they mainly concentrate on your
communication skills and your vocabulary. A tip that i would like to suggest
here is to be confident at each and every point of time and just allow others
also to speak .In addition to this be a good listener.

The next round would be a technical round where in they will test your
technical skills so that they can select some people who are suitable for
their job profile. Be thorough through your basics and be prepared according
to their job profile.

The final round would be HR round which is a round of casual interaction.They
will be asking you about youself and your background .They may also pose some
questions based on some situations to check your thinking ability and response
to those situations. Dont lie because if they feel that you have lied they
will directly reject you.Just be confident and try to answer them in a kind
way.Also ask atleast a question in return…

These are few tips.I hope this information would be helpful and ALL THE BEST
for your interviews.Please pardon me if there are any grammatical mistakes.


##########
Since you are a fresher, one would not expect you to have a lot of knowledge
or info about the industry, but you should be your subject matter expert.

Most companies are willing to invest time and money into freshers before they
become productive, thus the companies would like to understand your
willingness to learn and ability to grasp things that your are taught as a
part of your initial grooming.

Good communication skills shall always be a plus point, you do not need to use
too many difficult words, as long as you can communicate your ideas,
intentions clearly to the people it works fine.

Your personality should exude confidence and a can do/will do attitude. This
is perhaps the most important attribute.

Look at it this way, you want to buy some stocks, and make some investment.
Which of the two companies will you like to invest in?

A. New company, that has a CEO who is a subject matter expert, talks with
conviction and has a clear vision put forward. S/He knows where to put your
money and how to get it back with returns.

B. New company, the CEO is a subject matter expert, does not have a lot of
conviction in his speeches, has a vision but is in-confident about it. Says
will take your money and invest it, but isn't confident that s/he can get the
money back with the expected returns.

The answer is simple!

Thanks!


##########
