**_Firstly,please refrain from answers such as:_**

  * If you reject me it will be a loss for your company because I have decent technical knowledge and I can work in groups activity. **(No its not)**
  * You should hire me because I have lots of knowledge which I can share with you if you give me a chance to work with your fellow company. **(Better luck next time)**
  * You are here to hire a person with good technical knowledge, Hardworking and Good interpersonal skills , I'm person with above mentions, so I suit your requirement that is the reason why you have to hire me. **(everyone who has reached the interview stage meets the requirements)**
  * This is a great opportunity for me to improve my skills or knowledge and indirectly to help the Company. **(How?)**
  * Because I'm the best person for the job. I have all of the required qualifications that you are asking for in this job. But I also bring a passion to the job that makes me the best person for the job. Why? Because that passion translates into results **(Everyone has “passion” Give us Examples?)**

 ** _Try keeping it concise until asked to explain in further detail_**

For example:

 **"Why should we hire you" Example for Internship (Android Developer)**

 **Answer** :

I am a B.E final year computer science student. During my college period, I
have done contract work for android applications on sites like
[Elance](https://www.elance.com/) and [oDesk](https://www.odesk.com/).Also you
can check the reviews of the clients I have worked for, Im sure they are very
satisfied with my work.

I have a few projects on Github and a understanding of the Android SDK that I
improve by taking online courses/watching development videos and hence I
believe I will be able to contribute to your team and improve my skills in the
process.

 ** _In my opinion, such answers(given they are true) have high probability of
getting you selected for internships._**


##########
This is how you should answer to this question. And believe me guys , You will
definitely land up on an internship , atleast your application will be put
under review !

But make sure you have atleast the beginner level skills needed for that
internship. Any mention of previous **_internships_** with proper explaination
of your **_roles & responsbilities_** when working as an intern will boost
your chances of being selected.

Try to mention every **_skill_** that you possess that matches their
requirement. I am writing my answer to this question each time I appply for an
internship .

 **Why should you be hired for this internship ?**

 **Answer-** An internship opportunity at XYZ will definitely contribute to my
professional development. Marketing is all about 'meeting needs profitably'.
What excites me the most about this internship is the fact that I will be able
to showcase my knowledge of **_Digital Marketing ( Facebook marketing, Email
marketing, Social media marketing )_** at the right place .

I was an **_operations_** **_and Marketing Intern_** at ABC Pvt. Ltd wherein I
was responsible for-Handling their Online presence , reaching out to the
customers and following up with them by effective email marketing campaigns ,
maintaining the content on platforms like linkedIn , Facebook and Twitter,
promotion of their android application via Sms , Cold calling and Emails
,measuring and report performance of all digital marketing campaigns, and
assess against goals (ROI and KPIs),identify trends and insights, and optimize
spend and performance based on the insights, brainstorm new and creative
growth strategies,plan, execute, and measure experiments and conversion tests,
create landing pages and optimize user experience.

At present I am a **_Marketing Executive_** at PQR Pvt. Ltd. wherein I am
responsible for Promotion and Management of their social media pages and thus
increase the traction on their website .

I am a **_Blogger_** as well and I usually write about cricket. You can visit
my blog using the link mentioned in the resume. My marketing skills would be
put to test at the right place.


##########
Hey, Tech Recruiter here. I made a youtube video and blog post about this
recently.

You want to tailor your answer to fit THEM. It’s tempting to just start
talking about yourself, but you’re missing an important piece if you do that.

So first, research the company, check out the job description, and get an idea
of what is most important to them in this position. What skills, traits,
experience, abilities, etc.

Then, when you answer the question, talk about the research you did, what you
saw that seemed important to them, and why you’d do a good job of filling that
need and adding a lot of value for them!

And the final step to set you apart... what I call a “distinguisher”… add
specific facts or data to back up your claim that you will contribute a lot in
the area mentioned. Tell a specific story about it.

Instead of just a casual statement like “project management is definitely a
strength of mine”, say something like “In my last job I managed 4 or 5 ongoing
projects at any given time so I’m great at delivering quality results on tight
deadlines. My boss assigned me the toughest projects because of this”.

You can see a full example in [the blog post I did on this
subject](http://careersidekick.com/interview-question-why-should-we-hire-you/)
if you still aren’t sure what to say. Hope this helps!


##########
This is a very crucial question and how you tackle it largely determines your
chances to be hired.

The more personalized touch you give to the answer, the better it gets.

Some points to be considered can be-

  1.  **Make a positive beginning** \- Though it's a question, make it an interaction. **Greet**. A simple ‘Dear Sir/Ma'am, Greetings!’ at the beginning would suffice.
  2.  **Check and study the intern's profile and set of responsibilities chalked out**. Relate how they are relevant to your pursuits/qualifications and how the internship will help you gain more insight and knowledge.
  3. Don't forget to mention about your **earlier experience** if you have any, to back you. Also, any **project** on the same lines that you headed would work in the favour too.
  4. Mention about your **skills, certifications** and how they can be of great help considering the profile.
  5. While doing so, **don't boast**. Keep the tone humble and genuine.
  6.  **Don't write generic answers for all the internships that you apply for.** Mould your answer as per every internship you apply. Copy pasting from internet isn't a good idea too as the recruiter may easily recognize it.
  7.  **Be modest**. State that if given an opportunity, you'll contribute significantly to the work and try your best to fulfill all your responsibilities.
  8.  **Spell check and proof read before hitting send. Use correct grammar.** There is no point in fussing over the typo that you overlooked or improper punctuation later on.
  9.  **Don't make an abrupt ending.** The recruiter has taken time to go through your application and probably has a pile of more to go through. End it with a simple ‘Thanks and Regards', signing off with your entire name.

 **All the best!**


##########
  1. Know the **job description**.
  2. Apply your **experience** to it.
  3. Talk **results**.
  4. Be the right **fit.**
  5. Close the **sale.**

Consider this example :

 ** _“I am a recent B.E graduate in Information Technology. During my college
period, I actively practice coding(hackerrank), done projects on android and
java, and have experience of working on live projects during my
internships._**

 ** _As, I am creative, reliable, and I have interest in programming, I can
ensure you that I will always give the first priority to my
responsibilities._**

 ** _I am the best fit for this profile because I have past experience of
working on java and android. I am also skilled in C, mysql, javascript._**

 ** _As, I have just started my career; I can’t give you any explanation that
strongly encourages you to hire me, but I can promise you that if I get into
this internship, I will be very loyal and dedicated to my work._** ”


##########
  1. “I strongly believe it is more like a mutual benefit and cooperation accord between me and the organization where in I gain the knowledge and the company gains the reputation with time along with increase in revenue.”

2\. “Hiring a intern is a huge investment

I plan to pay off immediately”

3\. “Because apart from working for the company, I will work for myself too!

And luckily our goals are aligned!”

4.Word play - “Because my promises depend on what I can deliver and not the
other way round!”


##########
Hi..Probably this is the most irritating and tricky question that everyone
faces during an interview. But let me assure you this is not really a that
tough question to fail to answer. I will tell you the purpose and how to
handle this question.

Well, I think this is purely the job of the interviewer to whether to take in
or not, but usually this question is asked to the candidate. The interviewer
wants to see how confident, motivated and interested you are to do this job.
Also he wants to see how your qualities will be suiting the job that you are
applying for. He can see the qualities mentioned by you on the resume, but for
the fact almost all candidates will be showcasing more or less the same
qualities on their resumes. So it all depends on,how true that you carry those
qualities in you and you really have it.

To answer this question, just begin to say how your skills, past experience’s,
strengths, qualities come in handy while handling this job and don’t just say
but express your views strongly. After all you are selling yourself and see
that you sell yourself rightly and take what is yours rightly. The trick to do
this perfectly is to go through the values and the qualities the company
follows and the job that you are applying demands and make sure that you
include your strengths in resume in a such a way that they incline with the
values of the company and prepare your answers just for those in advance.

The other way to answer the question is just not to say anything. In one
instance,one of my friend after completing the interview was posed with the
same question and the answer from him was “That is not my job, I have answered
all your questions, now it’s upto you to select or not”. So sometimes the
attitude will also just do the work.


##########
If it were me, I’d likely hit a nerve which contrasts a strong investment with
my own social belief, drag on, and quite frankly, I’m no genius. So, as an
example from me having never done this before, I’d probably not use this, but
learn from it, and know I’d suck less next time as I’ve addressed some touchy
issues. I’ve also taken it as Google is the employer offering the internship
as it seemed apt to do so.

 _Firstly, I’d (you’d) like to formally express the gratitude felt on behalf
of myself (yourself), and in a future sense, your current workforce of endless
opportunity to push the boundaries of presumptuous limits; what is achieved
here as a collective is awe-striking and from the outside a wealth of not only
information, but examplory of what diversity achieves when all walks of life
collectively transpose a mediocrity into an unravelling notion endlessly
suited to each and all. It amazes all of us who have grown to depend on such
reliably indiscriminate, Linux based (clearly Google) index ingeniously
catalogued as if returning information via synapses practiced yet immediately
malleable, almost surrogate now to a collective record of information
available at our fingertips._

 _Just in opportunity alone, regardless of my success at gaining an
internship, gives me a sense of honour and pride, so I am truly thankful for
this moment of your time. For some time I have seen a likeness in what I
believe is the philosophical drive, albeit gargantuan to my dwarfing parallel,
truth be told; a shadow along the pathway forward and I do understand, even my
path could just be the bi-product ordained by the inevitable reliance I too
feel with the outside world, but not to be evil, as with great power does come
great responsibility and I live by that, as integrity and accountability are
the forefront of my moral fibres, as are diversity and change, and family of
course. I am not competitive, and I try wholeheartedly to do what is right by
my colleagues and the business._

 _I have strengths and weaknesses, but thinking outside the box to solve
problems is likely my standout quality. When a problem is not fully
understood, I may not have the mathematical knowledge and application required
to solve it, but conceptually the vision is clear to me when it comes to
approaching the paradox, ephemeral, and unorthodox resolve when the system
yields blind others bound by meticulous logic._

 _I do hold qualifications in ************************, and
************************, so there is a foundation there academically, but I
believe that is not what separates this globally recognised business entity
and Anthropologically aware and therefore sensitively catering of; as such
responsibility endows upon this top tier enterprise from the rest of the
world, is but the flare and talent of its directors resonating with the teams
of innovative, happy, healthy, gifted with opportunity to reach and showcase
their potential with equal gratitude and therefore perpetuating success and
furor._

 _In a world where facial recognition is no secret in its demographic
information exchange between Facebook and Surveillance Authority in city
streets, coupled with Swiss engineered software able to box and identify what
will be as many people are within the scope of the camera at once accurately
with all information both academically, the latest social security or
healthcare utilities used, threat levels and police procured infringements or
behaviours akin to antisocial thus gaining highlights; and none of which is
read by man but machine collating and attributing focus based on such
information therefore not breaching civil liberties as no people(s) know
intimate detail that the system, a machine, gives focus and highlights based
upon…I believe that my experience with the receiving end of Semantic Web
Development and AI need be addressed, as some silently aware do resent what to
them is obvious and insisting of things that is not convenient or reflecting
of their desires or needs, but depriving them of a freedom which is
coincidence, and chance. These things are the closest to magic that we have in
the world, and anticipating our next move takes away that child within us all,
our hope, and eventually our confidence in protecting our own children in a
preset, calculating world of unnatural orderliness._

 _Hopefully this notion is not a deal breaker, but an example that an outside
perspective can bring, and seer of the pitfalls that may be otherwise
overlooked; but by no means intended to be a roadblock or protested nuisance.
If given opportunity, I am your guy who brings clarity to the table in both
the subjective, objective, and mediated 3rd person emphatic who as a human of
both worlds can in translation express not just words but in a depth invoking
visual thoughts to those who do seek to know first hand what statistics do not
illustrate. To see all angles and ascertain the demeanour of others from a
Devil’s Advocate standpoint, challenge the moral obligations underpinning
technology and ascend beyond convenience and habit into faith and a culturally
enriching essential; one that people will invest back into out of gratitude
for making life better today, and providing the information the disadvantaged
need to be self sufficient, like minded people across the globe._

 _This is my dream, and if you too share the vision and see this level of
potential, I think this is why you should hire me for internship._

And cease the violin in 3…2…1


##########
Never say that you wanna get this internship just so your résumé looks pretty
or for college credit.

Say, that you are here to work and gain an experience in a real working
environment oblivious of the fact that you might have to work for free or for
a reasonable stipend.

Be humble while responding to any questions and don’t show any form of
smugness.

I feel most of the interviewers get pissed off when you show some sense of
aloofness or a don’t give a fuck attitude or just give me the internship
certificate already.

Always remember you are applying for internship, and it is you, who are
seeking them not the other way round.

So, just reply honestly, show them you mean business and can work well with
any sort of ungodly demands. ( It’s an internship, so you won’t be given a
preferential treatment as other paid employees around will get.)

Hope this helps, if it doesn't then maybe I need to revisit my interview skill
sets.


##########
