**Profile-**

 **10th:** 91.69

 **12th:** 69

 **Grad:** 70 (Computer Engineer from MU)

 **Work Experience:** 21 months - Database Developer at [Media.net | One of
the largest ad-tech companies worldwide](http://media.net)

 **Category:** NC-OBC

I have been interviewed at FMS twice.

Direct reject the first time :(

Direct convert the second time :D

 **First time-**

 **CAT 2016:** 92.83 percentile

 _There were 2 ladies (L1 and L2) and one gentleman(M1)_

 _L2 was the senior most amongst them_

 **L2:** Ritesh, you’re a Computer Engineer. Do you think we have too many
Computer Engineers in India?

 **Me:** No ma’am. We’re a developing country and we need computer engineers
to develop the IT infrastructure of the country. John Adams, a founding father
of the US once said, “I need to learn Politics and War so that my son may
learn Engineering, Navigation and Architecture and then his son may pursue the
nobler aspects of life like Poetry, Music etc.” It always happens in stages.
We are a developing country and currently we are at a stage where we need
engineers. Civil Engineers to build roads and other physical infrastructure.
Computer Engineers to build the IT infrastructure and so on.

 **L2:** Okay. What you’ve just said, draw a graph of that.

 **Me:** (I was befuddled but masked my confusion) Do you mean a tree?

 **L2:** No, a graph with X and Y axis

 **Me:** What do you want me to put on these axes?

 **L2:** Anything that you deem fit.

(I, knowing this wouldn’t exactly please them, put investment in education on
X-axis and growth on Y-axis)

 **Me:** (Explaining it) Initially when you invest a lot, the growth won’t
show instantly but it’ll start showing over time.

 **L2:** What is this? (Her features conveying that I didn’t understand her
question)

 **M1:** Shouldn’t your graph be an inverted U shape? You start studying
Liberal Arts then study engineering and then return to Liberal Arts.

 **Me:** Oh, in that way, yes it can be.

 **L2:** Have we given him his extempore topic yet?

 **L1:** No

(I had my folder on my lap. I believe it is impertinent to place it on the
desk without permission)

 **L2:** You can put your folder on the desk. That’s what it is there for.

 **Me:** (Placing it there) Thank you ma’am.

 **L1:** Your extempore topic is ‘Folder’

 **Me:** Sorry. I didn’t get you

 **L1:** (Pointing at my folder) Folder

 **Me:** A folder is used to store documents but with technological
advancements, I could just scan my docs and store them in the cloud and access
them from anywhere. But for important occasions like this interview, hard
copies of important docs are required so a folder is required to encompass
these hard copies and also convey professionalism. Also, the word fold means a
group of people having similar characteristics or leaning so we could refer to
them as a folder of sorts. The verb ‘fold’ means to give in or warp under
pressure so we could refer to a guy who folds, metaphorically speaking, as a
folder as in he has folded. He has quit. (I was pretty sure that I had spoken
for 1+ minute and was running out of ideas so I just faded and said ‘That’s
all about folder’)

 **M1:** Do you know about supercomputers?

 **Me:** Yes, supercomputers are more powerful than your general PCs, possess
a large amount of memory and a lot of processing power. They are used in
number crunching, weather forecasting, scientific calculations etc.

(M1 grilled me for quite some time about supercomputers)

 **M1:** What’s a lot?

 **Me:** Lot is something that transcends what you would deem as normal. It is
something that’s above average.

 **M1:** Quantify it

 **Me:** Sir, my understanding of supercomputers is limited so I can not
quantify it with authority. I can only guess. Also, nowadays even general
purpose computers are really powerful. We have dual, quad and octa core
microprocessors capable of performing parallel processing and thereby
processing a large amount of data in a very short time. Data ranging in many
TBs.

 **M1:** What comes after TBs? Do you know?

 **Me:** TB stands for Terra Byte. I do not know what comes after that.

 **M1:** How many processors if you were to hook up together would you have a
supercomputer?

 **Me:** I am not sure. I could only conjecture if I were to be allowed to do
that. And like I said we’ve come a long way. The first microprocessor Intel
4004 was really weak and today we have powerful 32 and 64 bit octa core
processors

 **M1:** Yea try a guess about the number of processors

 **Me:** I suppose 7-8 (This was grossly inaccurate. I looked it up later, the
world’s most powerful super computer has close to 41,000 processors)

 **L2:** You have an accent when you speak. How did you come to have it? Did
you acquire it or something else?

(I have a slightly foreign accent and I always try to mask it in interviews as
I don’t like to explain it but damn it she caught it :P)

 **Me:** Yes ma’am. I suppose I grew up watching too many Hollywood movies so
I might have sub-consciously picked it up. (Nonchalantly) I don’t think too
much about it though!

 **L2:** Has anybody mentioned it to you?

 **Me:** Yes ma’am, friends have mentioned it. Colleagues have too.

 **L2:** Any converts so far?

 **Me:** No ma’am. I have calls from the new IIMs and they haven’t released
their lists yet.

 **L2:** So no converts so far?

 **Me:** Yes ma’am. No converts yet.

(The interviewers looked at each other and then told me that the interview was
over. I was getting up when M1 interjected)

 **M1:** When you go out, read up about supercomputers

 **Me:** (with a wide smile)Yes sir, I certainly do intend to do so.

(I wore a smile throughout the interview even when I felt I was being put on a
spot)

 **Verdict:** Not converted

 **Scores:**

 _Extempore-_ 5/5

 _Interview-_ 9/10

i.e. a total of 14/15, the highest score awarded to any candidate that year :P

 **Second time-**

 **CAT 2017:** 99.31 percentile

 _There were 2 ladies (L1 and L2) and one gentleman(M1)._

 _L1 didn’t ask anything. L2 was really sweet. M1 could be a little rough at
times._

 **L2:** We’ll be giving you an extempore topic. You have to speak on it for a
minute. You’ll have 10 seconds to think. We’ll tell you when to start.

 **Me:** Yes ma’am, certainly.

 **L2:** Do you know about Ritesh Deshmukh?

 **Me:** Not much ma'am.

 **L2:** Okay your extempore topic is 'My favorite heroine'.

 **Me:** Talked about Mila Kunis (Though my favorite is Alexandra Daddario
because she's quite bodacious to say the least :P)

 **L2:** You seem to have done quite a lot of research on her.

 **Me:** Yes ma'am, she not only acts but is also involved in social work
along with her husband Ashton Kutcher

 **L2:** Who's your favourite from Bollywood?

 **Me:** Kareena Kapoor ma'am

 **M1:** What about Rani Lakshmi Bai, is she not your favourite heroine?

 **Me:** Yes sir, if we were to interpret heroine in that way, she too is an
inspiration to many

 **M1:** What do you know about her?

 **Me:** She's known as Jhansi Ki Rani (was going to elaborate, M1
interrupted)

 **M1:** Who's representing her in a movie?

 **Me:** I'm not sure about it but I if I were to be allowed to guess

 **L2:** Yes try (gesturing assent)

 **Me:** I think Kangana Ranaut

 **L2:** Correct. So, you have 91.69 in 10th, a drop in performance 12th: 69
and then 70 in B.E.

 **Me:** Yes ma’am

 **L2:** You've mentioned your father is a newspaper vendor (in the form), so
what do you mean? I mean how does it all work. Could you explain? We don’t
know exactly which layer a news paper vendor falls in. Like is he in the
middle layer or where? How is it all structured?

 **Me:** It begins with manufacturing of newspapers (L2, with a look on her
face that betrayed the feeling that that's not what she was asking)

 **Me:** Also, we have wholesalers who'd aggregate it from multiple newspaper
companies and then provide it to us. We're retailers. The last leg that meets
the customer.

 **L2:** So, you're the company's customer facing unit.

 **Me:** Yes ma'am. Also, in today's technologically advanced world there's
disintermediation happening. So, people are reading news online and people
like my father are less and less needed and are becoming redundant.

 **L2:** How much do the various people involved make? Wholesalers,
manufacturers, retailers?

 **Me:** My father makes 25%. That’s what he’s told me. I don’t know about the
others.

 **L2:** What happens when you have more papers than you can sell?

 **Me:** There are some newspaper companies that allow us to return newspapers
back to them that have been unsold. This is part of their reverse logistics
process. Since we're their partners, they manage us well.

 **M1:** So, for the manufacturer once it goes to the retailer, my job is
done?

 **Me:** No sir, market share is only a reflection of what's happened in the
past. You also need to think about future and keep customers happy. From that
perspective, the manufacturer obviously cares about (M1 interjected)

 **M1:** That's not what I meant. I'm talking from the perspective of money.
Will the wholesaler just take all unsold newspapers back?

 **Me:** Sir, there's reverse logistics. TOI i.e. the manufacturer, for
instance takes all unsold newspapers back and not the wholesaler.

 **L2:** Is it credit based? Will they not charge you for unsold newspapers?
How will the money be remitted to you?

 **Me:** No ma'am. There is no credit. Daily payment has to be made. For
unsold newspapers, money will be credited back. Also, the same newspaper
company charges different prices at different places sometimes. For instance,
Hindu charges Rs. 5 in Chennai and Rs. 10 in Mumbai

 **L2:** So you've written you write poetry

 **Me:** Yes ma'am, I pen prose and poetry

 **L2:** Could you recite one of your poems for us? A short one. Whichever
language it is in

 **Me:** I pen poetry in English, ma’am.

(Recited one poem of mine verbatim. Also, I later found out that L2 herself is
a poet :P)

 **L2:** (smiling)Were you expecting that we would ask you to recite a poem?

 **Me:** (smiling)No ma’am, I had not expected, but it’s one of my favorite
poems that I have penned so I remember it well!

 **L2:** Do you have any siblings or are you the only child?

 **Me:** I have a younger sister ma’am.

 **L2:** What is she doing?

 **Me:** She’s pursuing BBA ma’am. She’s in her second year.

 **M1:** Do you have any other calls?

 **Me:** IIM L and K, sir

 **M1:** Why not ABC? You have a good percentile.

 **Me:** It's probably as ma'am mentioned because of my low 12th percentage

(M1 reads my percentage 91.69 in 10th. 69 in 12th and 70 in BE)

 **M1:** So, FMS is your best call (I was amazed he didn’t consider L to be at
par with FMS but didn’t show it)

 **Me:** Yes sir, I knew ABC would not call me. The whole year my preparation
has been with one goal in mind- converting FMS. That's the institution that
I've been aiming for right from the time I started preparing for CAT.

 **M1:** So why do you want to come to FMS?

 **Me:** (gave a prepared answer) FMS was founded in 1954. It has a decades
old legacy and an extensive alumni network, with alumni employed in both
public as well as private sector. So, it would be a great opportunity to
connect with and learn from them.

Being amongst the top B schools in India and also situated in the Delhi-NCR
region, both corporate and government luminaries through their guest lectures
provide valuable insights to the students at FMS.

It also attracts quality students with high aptitude from various disciplines
(Science, Commerce, Arts) that would enable me to learn from them, result in
peer learning and also pose challenges in front of me to push myself harder to
excel.

Also, every permanent faculty member is a PhD with extensive teaching
experience and the faculty to student ratio is high.

All the advantages mentioned above and the structured and rigorous program
that MBA is would expand my cognitive capabilities and help me develop a
holistic approach when analysing and resolving problems

 **M1:** Why do you need reservation(NC-OBC)? You have a good percentile
(99.31)

 **Me:** Sir, it is a right bestowed upon me by the Constitution of India so
that people like me who are not economically privileged can rise up. A rich
person will provide the right kind of resources to his son. He’ll get good
tuition, go to a good school and so on. But the economically underprivileged
don’t have access to quality resources, so it is there to help them rise up.
Also OBC reservation is provided based on income. It is not intended for the
well to do OBCs. I suppose currently there’s a cap at Rs. 8 lakhs for
providing reservation.

 **M1:** A salary of Rs. 45,000 per month. How are you economically
underprivileged? (with a smirk and then he looked at the other interviewers)

 **Me:** I am the first graduate in my family. Reservation is based on my
father’s income and not mine. For the first 21 years of my life, I did not
have access to proper resources and had to work very hard to rise up.

 **M1:** Are you 21 now?

 **Me:** No sir. But as I said for the first 21 years, I didn’t have access to
quality resources so my upbringing was such that I was deprived of quality
resources.

 **L2:** We see 1 or 2 students who have reservation but choose not to take
it. You seem to be having good skills. Would you want it for your son?

 **Me:** If I am well to do and he has access to quality resources, then no
ma’am

 **All 3:** Okay, that’s it.

(L2 being the sweet lady that she is also informed me that my GD will be
conducted once they are done interviewing the others in my panel. She asked me
to wait and not leave without giving my GD. I was really looking forward to
interacting with and learning from her once college began)

 **Verdict:** Direct Convert :D


##########
I did something similar to [Luca Petty](/profile/Luca-Petty)’s answer, but my
experience wasn’t out of choice, but rather out of necessity, and I worked 10
- 12 hours a day for about 6 months, not 30 days.

 _I’ve worked for multiple agencies in senior roles in my career, and I won’t
be clarifying which agency I’..._


##########
**Profile** : B. Tech Planning (Urban and Regional), Work exp.: 9 months

 **Interview slot:** 08:30 hrs. 20 April 2018.

The process started with document verification followed by Group Discussion
and finally Personal Interview.

 **Group Discussion:**

As ABC shortlists were out, GD’s were just wow! (6-7 people in the group).

The panel consisted of 3 professors, all male.

Topic: Globalization is hampering/ destroying Indian culture. The GD went well
with a lot of points covered during the discussion.

 **Personal Interview-** ** _Panels for GD and PI are the same._**

P1: Introduce yourself to the panel.

Me: Introduced.

P2: (Interrupted) What is this degree of yours- B. Tech Planning?

Me: Stated that it is Urban/ Town Planning and gave details.

(P1 asked me to continue my introduction. I continued and finished)

P1: Why do you want to I an MBA?

Me: Answered.

P1: One last question from my side, name any 3 international real estate firms
in India.

Me: JLL, Knight Frank, Trump Towers

P1: P2 will now give you a topic for extempore.

P2: Rural India

Me: Spoke about the migration of people, need to develop rural areas,
government initiatives for the same. _(I felt it went well)_

P3: Two questions for you-

a. You have said about the haphazard development in urban areas- How will you
getting an MBA help you achieve it? _(I mentioned about it in my extempore but
don't recollect saying my interest in working for it!)_

Me: Answered.

b. Which ministry looks after Urban development?

Me: Ministry of Urban Development.

P3: And for connectivity between two cities?

Me: Ministry of Roadways and Transport.

P3: Who are the Cabinet Ministers?

Me: For transport- Nitin Gadkari; For MoUD- I can't recollect! _(This was
embarrassing! -_-)_

P3: Okay!

P2: So your degree is B. Tech Planning, do you have any subjects related to
Mech, Civil?

Me: No sir. (Then explained that our college is an Engineering college and
hence the degree needed to be a technical one)

P2: Okay Jay! Thank you, you may leave.

Me: Thank you Sir!

 **Overall suggestions for candidates-**

1\. Carry **a pen** , smiling face and just appropriate confidence (not more,
not less).

2\. If you've posted the required documents timely, you won't need any
photocopies. If you haven't, don't worry. There's a xerox shop outside. The
admission committee will let you know what all photocopies they'll require.

3\. **Rock your GD!** There were just 6-7 students in one panel as ABC had
declared their shortlists.

4\. Extempore topics of the fellow interviewees-

a. The first one (Probably being the first to be interviewed)

b. A banana

All the Best for your interviews! :)


##########
**FMS Delhi**

Slot- 2:00 PM

20th April’18

CAT Percentile: 98.44 **(Score: 32.986/60)**

Profile:

10th: 84.67 (RBSE) **(Score: 4/5)**

12th: 74.77(RBSE) **(Score: 3/5)**

Graduation: 7.78- Electronics and Communication Engineering-NIT Trichy

Work Exp: 32 Months-Automobile Sector

 **GD Topic:** Law should be an instrument for Social Change.

9 People in my Panel, two were absent. Three Moderators for the GD.

Time: 8 Mins (7(per person a Minute) +1 Min)

(Spoke about the Land Acquisition law, moved from the 1894 law to 2013 Law.
Mention the Benefits of LAAR (Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement) 2013. Mention the IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy) Code 2016 and
its benefits for development. Spoke about the Anti Rape Law 2013 and
punishment provision under this law. Concluded with the role of executives in
the implementation of the laws.) **(Score: 6/10)**

 **Interview Process:**

I was 5th in My Panel.

3 Panelists, 2 Male, and 1 Female Professor. Let’s call them P1 (Senior Male
Professor), P2 (Young Male Professor), P3 (Female Professor).

Interview Coordinator called my name and I entered the room. I stand near the
seat to wait for the permission to be seated.

P1: Sit Down, Please.

Me: Thank You, Ma’am.

P3: So Ramraj, Introduce yourself.

Me: After the well-rehearsed introduction where I talked about My Strengths,
Work Experience. I also talked about the Patent, Marketing Project.

*Interrupted by P3.*

Its extempore time now.

P3: Ramraj, We will give you a topic and you have 10 Secs to think about it
and one minute to speak.

Me: Ok Ma’am.

P3: Your topic is “IPR”.

Me: Can I have a rough page, please?

P2: No, you construct your thoughts and speak.

Me: Ok Sir.

After 10 Secs

Me: Full form of IPR is Intellectual Property Right. Intellectual Property
(IP) is the product human intellectual. It Includes the concepts, Products,
Creativity etc. and the rights protected to IP is known as IPR. Patent is one
of the form of IPR and it protects the Functional Expression of the product.
Like if a company develops a new technology than that company has exclusive
rights to use that particular technology, others cannot use that technology
without the permission of the company. India follows the IPR Act 1970 and the
no of application per year from India is very less compare to China and USA
and no of Patents granted to India is also very less compare to China and USA
**. (Score: 4/5)**

P3: Times up.

P2: Ramraj, You speak so fast. Did you prepare this for the interview?

Me: Sir It is the natural for me.

P2: In which Quality are you working?

Me: Sir, I am working in Current Quality Department.

P2: What Quality Standards you follow?

Me: Sir we follow the TS Standards.

P2: Which no?

Me: Sir its TS 16949.

P2: It is equivalent to ISO.

Me: Sir ISO 9001.

P2: What is Ford’s Quality Standard?

*Out of the blue question for me*

*Blank Face*

P2: Ford ingenuously developed a Quality Standard. What is it?

Me: Sir, in my company, another department is looking for the standard. I do
not know about this.

P2: It’s QA101. Just have a look at it. Now Ma’am will ask you the questions.

P3: Ramraj, Name any three Social Entrepreneur.

Me: Ma’am in which field?

P3: Any field.

Me: Ma’am I do not know.

P3: Ok Ramraj. We are done. All the best. Thank you.

Me(Smiling): Thank you, Ma’am and left the room. **(PI Score: 9/15)**

And that was it. NO TOFFEES, NO COOKIES.

*It was the shortest interview, lasted only 5 Mins.*

 **Cumulative Score: 58.986**

 **Edit 1: List 1: Waitlist 48**


##########
Profile:

CAT percentile: 99.47

10th:94.6

12th:92.4

Grad: 7.69(Btech: Electrical Engineering)

GD topic: Will IT industry create maximum jobs in India in future?

9 minutes for 7 people (including conclusion)

Me: Gave 2–3 generic points. Number of engineers, governments liberalizing
rules, cheap manpower available. After everyone spoke once, talked about AI
and how it will affect jobs. Discussion started on AI. Some guy spoke about
recession and how IT fires most employees. Countered the argument. GD ended.

I was pretty confident that I had nailed the GD and it will be easy from now
on. (LOL)

P1: introduce yourself

Me: blanked out. Spoke an introduction I had never prepared. Plus was nervous
so was speaking a little fast.

P1: Are you in a hurry? Why so fast?

P2: Bht baar rehearse kiya hoga.

Me:*Facepalm* Laughs. Yes sir, it is an important interview.

P1: Ok, extempore topic for you is “ Roses are red”

Me: Smiles. Ok

P1: And the line that follows it in the quote. You need to speak on both.

Me: *Wot?* Ok sir. After ten seconds of gazing awkwardly at the table

Talked about roses coming in different colours and so do violets. Talked about
generalization, glass ceiling, caste barriers,gender specific roles. Then
about modernization and need to change with time.

P3: Time up

P1: But where does this quote originate from?

Me: Sir I don’t know

P1: Actual use of this phrase was done where?

Me: Sir I don’t know. I picked it up as an abstract topic.

P1: Yeah. What you said was okay.

P2: Which school are you from?

Me: Mt. Carmel

P2:Why?

Me: *WTF!*

P1 cuts in: Yeah. Pretty good English she has.

P1: Tell us why MBA?

P2: Are you fed up of your job, that CRM and all?

Me: Talked about my role and connected it to management. They looked
convinced.

P1: You must have prepared for this interview. How did you prepare?

Me: *I didn’t use any source actually* Blurted out reading newspapers and
forming an opinion on everything. Said Hindu somewhere there.

P1: Who is the publisher ?

Me: Sir, Don’t know

P2: He is south indian.

Me: Yes sir. It is published in Chennai. But I can’t recall his name.

P2:Kasturi

Me: *Confused now* Sir, the owners are the hindu group and Kasturi and sons.

P1 & P2 laughing

ME: *What is happening here*

P1: Content editor btao

Me: Mukund Padmanabham

P2: Says some other random name

P1: What is hindu’s business line called?

Me: Sir I don’t know

P2: This means you don’t pay attention

Me: No sir. I just can’t recall the names right now. Besides Hindu was just a
bsic framework I used. I did my own research on topics from then on.

P1: Tell us what can we ask you?

Me: Sir I write

P1: *Interrupts* Write what?

Me: Short stories

P1: You must be reading also?

Me: Yes sir *Tried to tell I read novels but was interrupted*

P1: Favorite author

Me: Khaled Hosseini

P1: His works other than Kite runner

Me: Told all three books and the one upcoming in 2018. Als told what the new
book is about.

P1: What about Paulo Cohelo?

Me: Told about Alchemist, Zahir, adultery. Told my opinion about the two
writers and why I like Khaleed more.

P2: But these are not short story writers. O Henry, a few other names I hadn’t
heard of, these are.

P1: Ye kahan sune honge. 100 saal pehle waale hai ye toh!

Me: Sir i have read O Henry’s works. But I mostly read novels.

P2: Have you heard of *some strange author*

Me: No sir

P2: Read it. He writes good.

P2: Now I’ll ask you questions from academics.

P2:What is power factor

Me: Told

P2: Higher/Lower P.F?

P1:Which is better? Why?

Me: *Told*

P2: How do you increase power factor?

ME: Told two methods

P2: Difference between transmission and distribution?

Me: Took a second to think and to frame answer.

P2: What is the difference between generation unit and household.

Me: Told. And told difference between transmission and distribution along with
it.

P2: Between substations and houses what is there?

ME: Sir transformers

P2: Nothing else?

Me: *Shit!*

P2: Distribution sub stations

Me: *Smiling* Yes sir. Followed by transformers

P2: % loss in T& D

Me: Around 20%

P2: What? Itna zyada

Me: Spoke about generation capacity of India and available % power thus
accounting for 20% loss

P2: That’s it. Thankyou

Verdict: Converted!


##########
**Date** \- April 16 ( 10:00 AM slot)

 **Venue** \- FMS Delhi

 **Profile**

X- 89.50%(Gujarat Board)

XII - 92.62% (Gujarat Board)

BTech (Mechanical) - 81.2% (NITK Surathkal)

 **CAT** \- 99.81

General | Engineer | Male | Fresher

 **GD** \- Simplicity is the sole reason for success(Not verbatim- it was
something along these lines)

GD was arguably the most important part of the selection process because the
panelists who evaluate your GD take your interview as well. There were 8 of us
and so we were given 9(8+1) minutes to discuss. I began the GD. Spoke for more
than a minute, drew contrasts by giving out examples. Pitched in 3-4 times
more. Added that though simplicity is one of the most important virtues, it
wouldn’t be right to call it the sole reason. Talked about Mr. Manohar
Parrikar as well. Overall, I felt I did a really good job in the GD.

 **PI** \- I was the penultimate person in my panel. Our panel was taking 8-10
minute interviews. Finally my turn came at 11:40.

I entered the interview room and saw 2 female panelists F1 and F2.

Me: Good morning ma’am.

F1: Good morning.

Me: May I? (pointing to the chair)

F1: Yes please.

P1: So Praharsh, you’re still studying, is it? .

Me: Yes ma’am.

F1(Looking at my form): You’re studying in an NIT.

Me: Yes ma’am. I’m in my final year pursuing mechanical engineering from NITK
Surathkal.

F1: What have you done in college?

Me: Told

F1: Tell us about the social initiative you’ve mentioned in your form.

Me: Told

F1: Okay, we’ll now give you a topic. You have to speak on it for 1 minute.
Your topic is CRY.

 _I knew FMS often gave weird topics. So I wasn’t flustered._

Me: Cry is characterized by flow of tears. A person could cry in a happy
situation or in a sad one. Say for a mother, her baby’s first cry is extremely
special….

I was going on when I was interrupted by P1

P1: Do you even know what your topic is? It’s the foundation CRY.

Me: Oh (I was like wtf).

Both of them chuckled.

Me: So should I continue or should I restart with my new topic.

F1: Start again.

 _I had absolutely no clue of what CRY was, what it did,etc._

Me: Said a few very generic statements none of which were related to CRY.

F1 interrupted again.

F1: Do you know what CRY does?

Me(sheepishly): No ma'am

F1: No problem. Know of any other organization?

Me: _I didn’t know anything so I said PETA_

F1: Okay so PETA is your topic.

Me: _I knew what PETA did but I didn’t know much about them.But still I spoke
for 40-45 seconds and stopped._

F1: You still have time.

Me: _Said something rubbish_

F1: Okay stop. Do you follow news?

Me: Yes ma’am, I do.

F1: Tell me some recent news.

Me: Right now, elections are going on..

F1: No, not elections. Something else.

Me: Jet Airways crisis.

F1: Anything else?

Me: Some time back, the share price of Tata Motors fell a lot in a single day.

 _Finally they found something interesting_

F1: Why did the price fall?

Me: Explained well

F1: What did they do to overcome this?

Me: I didn't know and I should have said the same but I still spoke.

Ma'am, when a business isn't doing well, a company must evaluate their target
market because businesses cater to consumer needs.

F1: Who taught you all these fancy terms?

Me(smiled): Ma'am, the main aim of any business is profit
maximization(Blunder)

F1: No no no. It's not to make profits.

Me(trying to make up): Sorry ma'am, it's to maximize wealth.

F1: Yes. You should read an article (She told some name which I forgot
immediately)

Me: Yes ma'am, I'm sorry. I made a mistake.

F1: Don't be sorry. It's fine.

F1: So are you interested in stocks?

Me: No ma'am, not much.

F1: Do you know what Sensex is?

Me: Told

F1: How are these stocks decided?

Me: I don't know.

F1: No issues. We're done. You may leave.

 _When I was about to reach the door, P1 calls out._

F1: What's the meaning of your name?

Me: Ma'am, Harsh means happiness and Pra means extra. So Praharsh means extra
happiness.

 _Both of them smiled_.

F1: Okay.

Verdict: **Straight Convert**

This reaffirmed the fact that GD is the most important part since I had a
below average interview but a really good GD.


##########
FMS Delhi 16/04/2019

Venue : FMS Delhi

GD Topic : Can India Dream to host the Olympics.

There were 8 of us in the panel but only 3–4 of us spoke for the whole
duration. I spoke about infrastructure and it's maintanence , commonwealth
games, developing a team, influx of visitors, developing a taste and talent
for other sports and how currently we must focus on initiatives like Khelo
India. I spoke for around 4 minutes out of 9 but also gave chances to other
fellow panelists to speak, it wasn't a fish market but a healthy discussion.

PI: Was second in the panel, the bell rings and they call me in

P1 :- Female

P2:- Male

P3:- Male

P3 walks out of the room as soon as I enter.

P2: Moinack tell me us about yourself?

Me: Told the well prepared answer but with some additions at that moment
itself so it was sort of spontaneous.

P1: Both your parents are hotel management graduates, so you must be having a
lot of exotic food at home.

Me: I smile and say yes, and also that I am sort of a chef myself.

P1: So Moinack your Extempore topic is my favourite dish ( Thanked god for
this as my friends had topics like “Core “ and marketing techniques in
elections)

Me: comfortably spoke about my favourite dish, how it's made, the special
ingredients ( it is poppy seeds here). One minute was over and mam asked me to
stop.

P3 enters the room now

P2: Isn't poppy seed made from a drug so you don't have any side effects.

Me: I explained how the industrially processed ones have no such side effects
but one can feel hallucinations or extended sleep if they directly get it from
the fields and make it at home.

P2 : Why the shift to finance, I mean what was the start point?

Me: spoke about the association with a finance professor at VIT Vellore as we
had 5 compulsory management subjects, influence of Benjamin Graham and stock
investing.

P2: Tell me the 3 most important ratios according to you

Me: Spoke about return on equity and the 5 step Du Pont analysis, Debt Service
Coverage Ratio to check the solvency status and Defensive interval ratio ( was
in leather goods sector at the moment hence this).

P2: Okay Moinack we are done.

I am shocked for 2 seconds, like what happened, others had such long PI's
atleast 10–13 mins and I am being sent out in 6 minutes. Also P3 didn't ask me
a single question while he was the one who asked everyone else.

Me: I thank them and was about to leave when P1 asks me my calls and results.
I mention them, thank them and leave.

Was very nervous about the small PI and a small goof up in the extempore but
24 April 11:30 pm made it vanish.

Verdict : **CONVERTED In First List.**

P.S the GD plays a big role in FMS, their selection is done there itself
unless you really make a grave error in the PI.


##########
Profile: X/XII/Engg - 89.8/84.8/69.1  
  
CAT: 99.93

Panel consisted of 3 members. Let’s call them P1(F), P2(F) and P3(M).

*Entered*

P2: Naman, tell us something about yourself.  
I: _This interview was after a month my previous interviews had ended. So I
was a bit unprepared with my prepared answer._ Told them about my graduation
and work ex. Forgot to cover my hobbies.

P2: Do you know of any recent M&A in pharma industry?  
I: Not very recent but Ranbaxy was acquired by Sun pharmaceuticals.

P2: Why do you think M&A take place?  
I: To capture market share and reduce competition. Explained with an example
of Flipkart acquiring Ebay India ( _Happened a day or two before the
interview_ ).

P2: Okay, now P1 will give you your extempore topic.

* _Butterflies in my stomach. What’s the topic gonna be. Zada mushkil na ho bas_ *

P1: You have to speak on the topic ‘Namaste’ for a minute.  
I: **_Yessssss!_** _. Spoke of whatever points came up in my mind. “_ It is
very closely associated with me as it is the meaning of my name. It is the
first word that the foreigners learn when they come to India :p. It is used to
greet and show respect to others. It is synonymous to hello. That’s all I can
think of”

P3 spoke for the first time after this and showed his sense of humour.  
P3: “ **Kisi ko bhagana ho toh bhi bolo Namaste** ”  
 _Lol.All grinned_

 _P1:_ Tell me 3 women entrepreneurs.  
I: Could tell only one. Kiran Majumdar Shaw

P1: Which organisation is she heading?  
I: Biocon

P1: Tell me industry experts instead.  
I: Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo and Arundhati Bhattacharya of SBI.

P1: How long have they been working in their respective organisations?  
I: Don’t know, Mam.

P3: Why MBA?  
I: Told about my career plan and family business

P3: What is the turnover of your family business?  
I: Told

P3: How to judge a company’s performance?  
I: Talked about financial statements, mainly income statement and balance
sheet and what data each of them presents.

P3: Do you know of any financial ratio?  
I: Sir, I don’t have that much knowledge of finance. _While I was speaking
this sentence, it suddenly struck me and I blurted out._ **PE Ratio Sir**.
**The price per earning ratio.** *sigh of relief*

IIM Calcutta results were announced the day before. Asked me if I converted.  
I: Didn’t convert sir.

P3: Why?  
I: Didn’t answer well a couple of questions and cat score weightage is also
less.

P3: And you’ll get the benefit of weightage here.  
I: Yes sir!

 **Verdict: Direct Convert!!**


##########
