This question which I personally found interesting and been asked in Google
interview.

Here it goes- __**_If you look at a clock and the time is 3:15 then what is
the angle between the hour hand and minute hand_**?

Take a couple of seconds to think about it and you must be thinking this is
easy peasy.

But the answer is not 0° as your instinct tells you.

You can rethink for a minute(Don't worry,this isn't an interview :p )

Now coming to the answer,the most common mistake that most of us made was we
didn't take into account the movement of the hour hand of the clock between 3
and 4 as a result of those 15 minutes.

Like this.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-179029c01b167497db478972921367f3-c)

Since the angle subtended by the entire clock is 360° ,so in an hour, the
angle covered by the hour hand is 360/12=30° and in quarter of an hour,the
angle is 30/4=7.5°

 **So,the answer to the question is 7.5°**

PS- if you haven't heard of this question before and got it right in the first
go then do comment because I haven't seen anybody getting this right in their
first attempt.Cheers.


##########
**Question :**

A king wants his daughter to marry the smartest of 3 extremely intelligent
young princes, and so the king's wise men devised an intelligence test.

The princes are gathered into a room and seated, facing one another, and are
shown 2 black hats and 3 white hats. They are blindfolded, and 1 hat is placed
on each of their heads, with the remaining hats hidden in a different room.

The king tells them that the first prince to deduce the color of his hat
without removing it or looking at it will marry his daughter. A wrong guess
will mean death. The blindfolds are then removed.

You are one of the princes. You see 2 white hats on the other prince's heads.
After some time you realize that the other prince's are unable to deduce the
color of their hat, or are unwilling to guess. What color is your hat?

Note: You know that your competitors are very intelligent and want nothing
more than to marry the princess. You also know that the king is a man of his
word, and he has said that the test is a ** _fair test_** of intelligence and
bravery.

.

.

.

.

Think hard before you see the explanation.

.

.

.

.

.

 **Answer:** ** _White_**

 **Explanation :**

The king would not select two white hats and one black hat. This would mean
two princes would see one black hat and one white hat. You would be at a
disadvantage if you were the only prince wearing a black hat.

If you were wearing the black hat, it would not take long for one of the other
princes to deduce he was wearing a white hat.

If an intelligent prince saw a white hat and a black hat, he would eventually
realize that the king would never select two black hats and one white hat. Any
prince seeing two black hats would instantly know he was wearing a white hat.
Therefore if a prince can see one black hat, he can work out he is wearing
white.

Therefore the only fair test is for all three princes to be wearing white
hats. After waiting some time just to be sure, you can safely assert you are
wearing a white hat


##########
**Question** :

You have a glass of tomato soup. You have to give it to two children. How
would you divide the soup into two so that both of them are satisfied that
they have got equal share of soup?

 **Assumptions** :

You have one empty glass also.

The two glasses are of different shape and size.

 **Answer** :

Ask one of them to divide the soup into two equal parts. Then allow second one
to choose his glass. Both of them satisfied.


##########
#1

 **Consider 2 farthest squares of a chess board are removed from it. Let’s
call this Chess Board C. You have an infinite number of (2 X 1) dominos i.e.
dominos of size of 2 adjacent chess squares. Is It possible to cover every
square of C with dominos without letting them overlap in any way?**

 _Think_

.

.

.

.

 **No**.

The farthest squares removed from Chess Board C can either be both black or
both white.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-9fbca5c668f2fe76cf8ced1525d3d191)

But the dominos cover a square each of black and white.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-621df6d068971dd2a530986f55573493)

So, with every domino placed you decrease the count of black and white squares
uncovered equally.

Hence, it is never possible to cover the chessboard with dominos, no matter in
whichever way you arrange them since you have **two squares of the same
colour** less.

#2

 **Imagine a circular table.**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-e1e4adb81882ab3035cde07fa9f033b6)

 **You and your partner play a game of placing coins on the table, turn by
turn. The coins are of a fixed surface area. The coin has to be placed flat on
table with no 2 coins overlapping with each other. The first person who fails
to find a space to place a coin on the table loses. Both the players play
intelligently. Will you choose to play 1st or 2nd in the game in order to
win?**

The idea behind the game is - there is always a place to keep a coin on the
table if you mirror your opponent’s move (reflection of his coin’s place over
the center) as long as **he doesn’t keep it exactly on the center of the
table**.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-30ece29cde481bb42c6aa319dee03564)

So, you should start first and keep your coin exactly on the center of the
table. Now, no matter what location your opponent chooses to place his coin,
you mirror his moves. As long as he is able to find a place, you will too be
able to keep a coin. Hence, it will be your opponent first who runs out of
enough space to keep a coin and you win.

 **Now, consider if there is a hole in the center.**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-6768b74e6e89e2d5213d045c4359947d)

 **What’s your strategy now?**

You choose to play 2nd in this case since there is no center here.


##########
I found this puzzle interesting.

Puzzle:

A certain town comprises of 100 married couples. Everyone in the town lives by
the following rule: If a husband cheats on his wife, the husband is executed
as soon as his wife reports about him to mayor. No woman can report about
other’s husband. Every woman in the town knows about all the cheating husbands
in the town except her own. One day, the mayor of the town announces to the
whole town that there is at least 1 cheating husband in the town. How many
days it will take to find out 19 Cheaters from the day of announcement?

Solution:

 **19 Days**

Say there was only 1 cheating husband in the town. There will be 99 women who
know exactly who the cheater is. The 1 remaining woman, who is being cheated
on, would have assumed there are no cheaters. But now that the mayor has
confirmed that there is at least one cheater, she realizes that her own
husband must be cheating on her. So, her husband gets executed on the day of
the announcement.

Now let’s assume there are 2 cheaters in the town. There will be 98 women in
the town who know who the 2 cheaters are. The 2 wives, who are being cheated
on, would think that there is only 1 cheater in the town. Since neither of
these 2 women know that their husbands are cheaters, they both do not report
their husbands in on the day of the announcement. The next day, when the 2
women see that no husband was executed, they realize that there could only be
one explanation – both their husbands are cheaters. Thus, on the second day, 2
husbands are executed.

Through induction, it can be proved that when this logic is applied to **n**
cheating husbands, they all die on the **n** th day after the mayor’s
announcement.

Looking for more interview puzzles with descriptive answers? Try this app.
This app consists of 75 most frequently asked interview puzzles.

[Interview Puzzles - Android Apps on Google
Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.education.interviewpuzzles&rdid=com.education.interviewpuzzles)


##########
**_Here is the list of best interview puzzles._**

 **1\. Crossing the Bridge Puzzle**

Puzzle : Four people need to cross a rickety bridge at night. Unfortunately,
they have only one torch and the bridge is too dangerous to cross without one.
The bridge is only strong enough to support two people at a time. Not all
people take the same time to cross the bridge. Times for each person: 1 min, 2
mins, 7 mins and 10 mins. What is the shortest time needed for all four of
them to cross the bridge ?

 **Solution :**

 **2\. 25 horses 5 track Puzzle**

Puzzle : There are 25 horses out of which you need to find the fastest 3
horses. The race ground consist of 5 tracks that means you can run only 5
horses at a time. If you don't have a stop watch what is the minimum number of
races required to find the fastest 3 horses ?

 **Solution :**

 **3\. 2 Eggs 100 floor Puzzle**

Puzzle : There is a building of 100 floors If an egg drops from the Nth floor
or above it will break. If it’s dropped from any floor below, it will not
break. You’re given 2 eggs. Find N, while minimizing the number of drops for
the worst case ?

 **Solution :**

 **4\. Ant and Triangle Problem**

Problem : Three ants are sitting at the three corners of an equilateral
triangle. Each ant starts randomly picks a direction and starts to move along
the edge of the triangle. What is the probability that none of the ants
collide ?

 **Solution :**

 **5\. Red and Blue Marbles Puzzle**

Puzzle : There are 2 identical empty jars along side the jars there were 50
red & 50 blue marbles kept. You need to put all the marbles into both of the
jars in such a way that when any jar is selected at random the probability of
picking up a red marble is the highest.

 **Solution :**

 **6\. Connect 3 Houses with 3 Wells.**

Connect 3 Houses with 3 Wells without the lines intersecting ?

Source : [Maths Puzzles
Games](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLoePu5if4QWXzezl1lRtrwvbHk8v3Dpqx)


##########
It depends for what position the interview is. These are few puzzles which are
good for tech interviews and have been asked by top companies.

 **Google**

 **1, 11, 21, 1211, 111221, ………**

[ **What is the next number?**](http://epicworld.co.in/google-interview-
question-number-sequence-puzzle/)

 **Apple**

You love candy and you are given 3 opaque candy jars which contain candies
that are either orange or pink. One of them is labeled ‘Orange’, one ‘Pink’
and one ‘Orange + Pink’. Orange jar has only orange candies, pink jar has only
pink candies and ‘Orange + Pink’ jar has both orange and pink candies. But,
all three of them have been mislabeled. You can take out one candy at a time.

[ **What is the minimum number of candies that you need to take out to label
all 3 jars correctly.**](http://epicworld.co.in/apple-interview-puzzle-
mislabeled-jars/)

 **Google**

The probability of spotting a truck on a highway in an hour is 0.999. [**What
is the probability of spotting a truck on that highway in 20
minutes?**](http://epicworld.co.in/google-interview-simple-probability-
questions/)

 **Microsoft**

There is an equilateral triangle and three bugs are sitting on the three
corners of the triangle. Each of the bugs picks up a random direction and
starts walking along the edge of the equilateral triangle.  
[ **What is the probability that none of the bugs crash into each
other?**](http://epicworld.co.in/microsoft-interview-question-3-bugs-puzzle/)

All the best for your interviews!


##########
**Question :**

A king wants his daughter to marry one of 3 young princes, so he devises an
intelligence test. The princes are gathered into a room and are shown 2 black
hats and 3 white hats. They are blindfolded, and 1 hat is placed on each of
their heads, with the remaining hats hidden in a different room. The king
tells them that the first prince to deduce the color of his hat without
removing it or looking at it will marry his daughter. A wrong guess will mean
death. The blindfolds are then removed. You are one of the princes. You see 2
white hats on the other prince's heads. After some time you realize that the
other prince's are unable to guess the color of their hat. What is the color
of your hat?

 **Answer :**

There are two possibilities; either the hat on your head could be black or
white. There are 3 cases; 1) either the king could have chosen 2 black hats
and 1 white hat, 2) the king could have chosen 1 black and 2 white hats, and
3) the king could have chosen 3 white hats. Let us examine these cases 1 by 1.

Case 1: There are 2 black hats and 1 white hat on the princes' heads. In this
case, the prince wearing the white hat can see that the other two princes have
black caps on their heads and can immediately guess that he is wearing a white
cap. This case is obviously not true.

Case 2: There is 1 black hat and 2 white hats on the princes' heads. In this
case, any prince wearing the white hat (Prince A) can see that one other
prince is wearing a white hat (Prince B), while the third is wearing a black
hat (Prince C). Now, if he was wearing a black hat (as in case 1), then the
prince with the white hat (Prince B) would immediately have guessed the color
of his hat. However, this is not true because the other prince was unable to
guess the color of his hat. Hence, it is easy for this prince (Prince A) to
guess that he is wearing a white hat. This does not happen, as we know that
the princes are unable to guess the color of their hats. Therefore, this case
is also not true.

Case 3: This only leaves us with the case where the king chose 3 white hats.
Therefore, any of the three princes can, after waiting for a while, safely
guess that they are wearing a white hat.


##########
A Google job interview favorite that was recently solved by Artificial
Intelligence.

100 hat puzzle

100 prisoners stand in line, one in front of the other. Each wears either a
red hat or a blue hat. Every prisoner can see the hats of the people in front
– but not their own hat, or the hats worn by anyone behind. Starting at the
back of the line, a prison guard asks each prisoner the color of their hat. If
they answer correctly, they will be pardoned. Before lining up, the prisoners
confer on a strategy to help them.

What should they do?


##########
1.You are standing before two doors. One of the path leads to heaven and the
other one leads to hell. There are two guardians, one by each door. You know
one of them always tells the truth and the other always lies, but you don’t
know who is the honest one and who is the liar.

You can only ask one question to one of them in order to find the way to
heaven. What is the question?

[ **HERE’S THE ANSWER**](http://onisedeo.com/uaA)

2.A farmer bought a goat, a wolf and a cabbage from the market. On his way
home, he has to cross a river. He has a small boat which only allows him to
take one thing with him at a time. The farmer cannot leave the cabbage and the
goat together (the goat would eat the cabbage) nor can he leave the goat and
the wolf together (the wolf would eat the goat). How does he cross the river
without losing any of the things he bought?

[ **HERE’S THE ANSWER**](http://onisedeo.com/3I8I)

3.The probability of a car passing a certain intersection in a 20 minute
windows is 0.9. What is the probability of a car passing the intersection in a
5 minute window? (Assuming a constant probability throughout)

[ **HERE’S THE ANSWER**](http://onisedeo.com/2K3u)

4.On a certain island there are people with assorted eye colors. There are 100
people with blue eyes and 100 people with brown eyes. Since there are no
mirrors on this island, no person knows the color of their own eyes. The
people on the island are not allowed to talk or communicate with each other in
any way. They are also **NOT** aware of the number of blue or brown eyed
people on the island. For all they know, they could have red eyes too. But
they are allowed to observe other people and keep count of the number of
people with a certain eye color. There is a rule that the people on the island
have to follow – any person who is sure of their eye color has to leave the
island immediately.

One day, an outsider comes to the island and announces to the people that he
sees someone with blue eyes. What do you think happens?

[ **HERE’S THE ANSWER**](http://onisedeo.com/4WD6)

5.You have two sticks and matchbox. Each stick takes exactly an hour to burn
from one end to the other. The sticks are not identical and do not burn at a
constant rate. As a result, two equal lengths of the stick would not
necessarily burn in the same amount of time. How would you measure exactly 45
minutes by burning these sticks?

[ **HERE’S THE ANSWER**](http://onisedeo.com/4WEp)


##########
Amazon Interview Question → This question was asked to me during my interview
at Amazon.

There are 100 doors they are all closed.

A Person walks through these 100 doors 100 times. Each time he toggles some of
the doors. ( Toggles - close if open, open if close )

In the first walk he will toggle all the doors[.](http://doors.in)

In second walk, he will toggle every second door, i.e., 2nd, 4th, 6th, 8th and
so on

In third walk, he will toggle every third door, i.e. 3rd, 6th, 9th and so on,

So after 100th Walk, what all door will be open?

Answer. The explanation of the puzzle is long in this video so for answer
directly start from 1.30


##########
