I went for an interview for a waitressing job. I had just left my previous job
and was desperately looking to get a new one for summer and eventually during
weekends during winter as I was still in school.

The restaurant looked nice, served good food (I had eaten there before) and
was only 5 blocks away from were I lived. In other words, for my 16 year old
self, perfect

I was told to be at the restaurant at 1:30pm for the interview.

I, being me, was there at 1:15pm. 15 minutes of waiting didn't seem that
horrible, and waiting is always better than letting others wait.

I went in and informed the staff that I was there for the interview. They
asked me to take a seat, all well and good so far.

The seat they escorted me to, was actually one of the dining tables, fully set
for someone to eat at, and it was also smack in the middle of the restaurant.
I felt so out of place, sitting there alone, staring at nothing, waiting for
my interview to start, while everyone around was eating lunch.

Not the best situation, but not terrible…. yet.

I wait the 15 minutes, and still, the interview has not started. I’m thinking,
this happens, everyone is late sometimes, so I wait another 15 minutes.

At this point I'm slightly annoyed, mostly concerned. Maybe I got the time
wrong? Maybe the date? Should I even be here?

I wait another 5 minutes, but eventually, flag down a waiter and ask him if
something is wrong, and ask for the manager (ie. the interviewer)

The waiter tells me he’s downstairs having a cup of tea, but will be with me
shortly once he’s ready.

ok….. weird, but…..ok….. I guess….. so I continued to wait (again, stupid 16
year old me)

I waited and waited and waited and suddenly I look at the clock and its almost
3:30…. I had been there staring at nothing, waiting for this guy to ‘finish
his tea’ for 2 hrs.

So I ask another waitress (they had changed shifts) whether I should just
leave and maybe come back another time when the manager is actually available.
She tells me she’ll check in with him and see how much longer he’ll be before
he can hold the interview.

She comes back a couple minutes later and tells me that he will be here soon,
so again, like the idiot that I was, I waited some more.

Eventually, he did actually come out to start the interview, it was almost
4pm.

The interview happened right there, on the dining table, smack in the middle
of the restaurant, and it included being asked when and how much I was willing
to work…. that's it…. that was the interview… he sat down, introduced himself,
asked me how many hours a week I'm willing to work and on which days. He also
informed that I would not be paid for the first three shifts. To this day, I
still don’t know why this was a policy or why I even agreed to it, but I did
and after answering the other two questions he told me I was to start the next
day.

I should have never gone back, and in truth, this question only asked about
bad interviews, but….the rest of the story is too funny to not include.

So I went in the next day to work and I was told by the staff to wait for the
manager to get there so that he could brief me.

So again, I waited, this time in front of his office downstairs. Eventually he
arrived and I told him that I was told he was to brief me.

He said, “yes, yes, of course, just give me a sec” and he went into the office
closing the door behind him.

So, for the third time during this whole ordeal, I again start to wait. After
about 30 minutes, I'm absolutely over it so I knock on the door. I didn't even
wait for a reply, I opened it and inside, the manager was sitting down
drinking some tea (or so I assume) and on the desk a woman, with her leg
resting on one side of his chair. He had his hand resting slightly too far up
her thigh/dress. (I later found out she was the owner of the restaurant) Their
previous giggles (which I had heard through the door, before I opened) ceased
immediately. He quickly snatched his hand away and she stood up off the desk.
They both, simultaneously, took a step away from one another and both of their
faces looked like tomatoes. It looked like a scene from a tv show. I should
probably have apologized for barging in or something, but honestly…. I have no
shame, so I just told him I would be leaving and that he shouldn't expect me
to be back at any point.

He tried to talk me into staying and working there at least for the rest of
that shift, but….. why the fuck would I do that, when I wasn’t even going to
get paid for it.

So there, the entire interview plus the first hour on the job included me
waiting around for the manager for around 3 hrs total, while he was in his
office ‘drinking tea’…. in other words, getting it on with the owner.

I’ve had some pretty weird interviews in my life, but that is definitely high
up there on the ‘wtf’ scale.


##########
There is nothing to laugh about, in this story. During that interview, I
probably spent the worst twenty minutes of my entire working life, and that is
far away from being the worst part.

I was a young copywriter at an international advertising agency at that time,
and, together with my art director, I had just signed a successful campaign
for a most popular brand. It was a blissful moment for my early career, and
several agencies had started calling me for seeing my portfolio and, possibly,
hiring me.

One fine day, I received the call of my dreams. The creative director of the
most awarded agency in my country wanted to see me. I was ecstatic.

Two days later, excited like a child on the night of Christmas, I was opening
my portfolio in front of him. Confident as I was about my latest works, I
started to explain with youngish enthusiasm the strategy behind each campaign.
I was quickly going through the first three or four pages of my portfolio when
I kind of _sensed_ that this guy, the creative director, wasn't looking at my
works at all. I raised my eyes and met his eye. He was staring at me.

I immediately went back to my portfolio and clumsily started blathering again
about my works. But after a few seconds, when I turned towards him again, in
search of approval, his face was exactly where I had left it. He was still
staring at me without uttering a word. His squinted eyes were undoubtedly
expressing his despise for my ideas.

I started to sweat like a manhole after a flood.

I decided to play my last possible card and, skipping all the pages of my
portfolio, I tried to catch his attention with the latest of my works, the
campaign that I was most proud of.

Nothing. He was still staring at me, blankly.

All my self-confidence collapsed in that very instant. It was evident that I
had been completely delusional about my talent. I was a total failure. A great
agency would never hire an incompetent moron like me.

I thought that closing my portfolio and walking away was the only possible
thing to do. And so I did.

Fast forward three years. I am a bit senior now, and I have nearly forgotten
that incident, or, I'd better say, I have removed it.

My telephone rings, and it's him. He tells me that his agency is looking for a
vice-creative director and he would love to get to know me in person. _Get to
know? In person?_

The next week, when we meet for a business lunch, he is friendly and
talkative, but, curiously, he talks to me as if it is the first time that he
sees me. I refrain from mentioning the incident, and when he offers me the job
( _"no need to see your portfolio")_ , I promptly accept it. He becomes my
boss.

The reason for that incident, as I learned after I joined the agency, is that
he had epilepsy. During my whole interview, he was having a seizure. Probably,
he was at the first stage of the disease.

This guy was unanimously acknowledged in my country as one of the most
talented copywriters ever.

He died from dementia two years ago.


##########
Sometime in the late 90s or early zeroes, I got a cold call from a recruiter,
who said he was doing a search on behalf of a Senior Vice President of a
midsize company. He said the SVP was looking for a cryptographer, but for a
funny reason.

While flying cross-country, the SVP had been reading a news magazine whose
front cover had a picture of Whit Diffie, a leading civilian cryptographer who
was at Sun Microsystems at the time. The cover story said that Diffie was an
advisor to the CEO of Sun, so the recruiter’s SVP thought he should have his
own cryptographer.

I asked, “It sounds like he wants a pet, like a status symbol.” The recruiter
said, “Yeah, he believes he’s at that stage in his career. If the Sun CEO has
a cryptogapher, then he should have a cryptographer, too.” I thought it was
bizarre, but I needed work at the time, so I decided to go to the interview.

The company’s headquarters were near Boston, about 40 minutes from our house,
in a campus-style office complex of big buildings set down amongst tall forest
trees. I had a full day of interviews ahead of me.

Most of the day’s meetings were unexceptionable, but I was getting a tense
vibe from some of the people I was talking to, which I attributed to office
politics. Most of the people I met that day were directors who reported to
this VP, and it sounded like there were some jealousies about adding another
person to the frequent competition for the VP’s attention and favor.

In particular, in the mid-afternoon one guy, a mucky-muck of some self-
important variety, announced that I’d actually be reporting to him, not to the
SVP himself. So, I didn’t like that bait-and-switch, but I didn’t leave early.
It’s a good thing I stuck it out, because my day’s visit ended in a remarkable
way.

My last interview of the day was with a senior engineer like myself, I was
then in my early forties, this guy was maybe five to ten years older. Our
conversation started out normally enough, talking about the technical work,
going back and forth between his responsibilities and what my role’s duties
might be.

But then the guy stopped cold, looked me in the eye with a stricken look on
his face, and said, out of the blue, “Don’t come to work here; I can tell from
talking to you, you’ll hate it here. I hate it here.” We talked a bit more,
and he explained some, but he was pretty much begging me to save myself, while
I still could, from his bleak fate.

I thanked him, and after I drove home, I called the recruiter to say that I
wasn’t interested. I told him only that I was put off by the mucky-muck’s
political move. I didn’t mention the kindly engineer, the lost soul, who had
warned me away.

* * *

492 words.

My longer answers are here: [Don Davis' Longer Quora
Answers](https://dondavislong.quora.com)


##########
**Best interview with a nightmare follow up.**

I applied to the best major electronics chain in America and to my surprise i
got a call to come in for an interview. I dressed well in slacks and a polo, a
solid choice for a “leaking barrel of sweat” as a man. I arrived on time with
a crisp resume and greeted my interviewer with a firm handshake.

He was the assistant manager for the personal electronics section and we are
about the same age. I nailed the basic questions, weaknesses are my patience,
in 5 years i want my position in the company and with peers positive and
solidified, yada yada.

It was a basic entry level sales job. Stand between the cellphones and video
games, push charges and controllers. They were looking for someone who wasn't
into the games or the girls selling the phones more than the job. The
questions turned to the job and how i sell. I went into passive upsell. If
they don't want it don't push it. If they need it let them know how it helps.
A room 20x30 needs a cable show the advantages the options a 50ft cable has
over the minimum 20ft. When they have the info step back. They have to want it
more than you or they feel scammed.

The assistant manager seemed really impressed and asked if i could do a follow
up interview. YES, thank you!

“Great I'll call my manager, he's not due in for a few hours but you wait and
he'll be here in 20 minutes.”

My dream job got interrupted by a reality call. I don't know what he saw in me
but there was No Way the manager was going to be impressed when he gets called
in hours early to hear how not into girls i am. I wait around the department i
want to join and start rehearsing the differences between wireless chargers
and generic.

The manager walks in looking tired and pissed. He talks to the interviewer for
about 10 minutes two aisles away while i weigh 4ft cords and 6ft trying not to
listen but attentive to them as i should be for customers. Then i see the
manager crossed his arms and head to the interview room. The interviewer looks
a little sad and waves me over. A little context i was 30 but looked 25.

We sit down and he goes into how the position ive been recommended is not
selling external batteries. The manager explains that our district is selected
nationally to demo the entire corporation's move into smart homes and our
store is one of three to cover the entire metropolitan area. I was
interviewing on the north side where homes start as a suburban trailer park in
the industrial area near the store between a sewage plant and train tracks to
multi million dollar homes from the great war. Think Monticello on a half
acre.

My eyebrows raised to fill in my little balding spot and my jaw dropped to
satan's basement. I would have to make sales calls by bicycle. The manager
asks “so we need someone with experience selling computers". I think i tried
to defend myself with setting up my own chromecast. “and is there anything
else you could do for the company?” i offered to pick up trash in the parking
lot and wash windows. It got a laugh but not a call back.

I don't think there is much of a moral to the story. I think i could have done
the job. 30 years of experience with computers is good but i would be able to
use my experience with children more proactively than a story about the
commodore 64. It was going into homes and dealing with families. I could make
a sale while keeping a baby from crying and a toddler entertained and the
preteen engaged in the sale. I should have done a follow up call explaining
that but without a car it would have been a tough position.


##########
I was interviewing a potential candidate for a marketing position at a start-
up. I felt it was pretty clear given my job title, the position that he was
applying for and the general fact I was interviewing him it would have been
pretty clear that he'd be reporting to me if hired.

Interview is going alright, he tends to over explain a little too much but I
don't mind him sharing more when it comes to work history or style. Then he
mentions “Benelux” and then pauses mid sentence to explain the term. I
politely cut him off and let him know I'm familiar with it. He nods his head
and later on then says “Egypt” and again begins to tell me how I can find it
on a map. At this point I again just politely state, “Let's just assume I'm
familiar with geography.” He responded with “But you're an American, I'm still
not even sure you know about Benelux.”

While somewhat annoying, I'm convinced this is just something lost in
translation, he's otherwise a very strong candidate, I'm new to this and don't
want to let something rude cloud judgement, and I attempt to proceed in
interview. At which point he just asks me why I'm even interviewing him in the
first place and why don't they have the person that he would report to
interview him. I respond, “You are, that would be me.” He insisted that
couldn't be the case, no way they'd have a foreigner in charge of an entire
department (this was an internationally focused position hence why interview
done in English) and kept asking me to clarify who his real boss would be. I
asked him if he wanted to continue interview or not. He said yes. I asked one
more question and it was clear he realized now the mistake he made, it was
awkward so then we called it a day.

I also had another candidate ask me if I'd come to his country to have sex
with local women. He at least didn't doubt my ability to run a small
department. No he wasn't given an offer either.


##########
I woke up and changed into my Sperrys, H&M graphic tee, and chino shorts and
got ready to leave to my first interview

(Already you can tell I’ve made a fatal mistake.)

As I got off the bus and stepped into the building where I would get
interviewed, I kept thinking of potential questions the interviewer(s) would
ask me - I didn’t bother to do any research the night before. I felt
indifferent. What could go wrong; it was just a simple interview.

I looked at my watch and realized I was running late. I picked up the pace and
knocked on the conference room door, looking to see one or two interviewers
sitting down and getting ready. I began to apologize for subtle tardiness when
I realized there were more than two faces.

It was a group interview, around 6 or 7 people. I saw some people looking at
my shoes and chuckling - I immediately knew why. Everyone else was in a full
suit jacket, dress pants, derbies, the full ensemble. I was in my casual
summer outfit while everyone looked super professional. Uh oh.

The interviewer ushered me to sit and began to ask questions. The routine was
simple: she’d ask us a question and everyone would answer the same question in
whatever order assigned. Of course, I was last to answer.

The questions were relatively simple, but when it got to my turn, the answer I
wanted to say was already taken, either by the last guy, or the guy before
that. I wasn’t able to think that well in tight situations, which led to my
downfall. I started stuttering and saying utter bs.

Interviewer: What are some signs of leadership you show in your community?

Me: (in my head) Okay, I’ll talk about being the captain of the robotics and
math teams or something like that.

Girl before me: “Oh, well, I led my college robotics team to the finals and we
worked together to build to robot blah blah. I also did all the mathematical
equations as part of the team - it was a collaborative effort.”

Well, shit., The timing couldn’t have been worse. The question before was
about your strengths and weaknesses, so even if someone said my answer - which
someone did - I always could pull out a couple of adjectives from my
vocabulary.

But, for this question, it was way too much specific. I was in highschool,
surrounded by college students - my mind couldn’t process things fast enough.
Eventually, it was my turn.

Me: uhh….. Yeah, me too. I also do robotics stuff and build them. Haha. Yeah.

Interviewer: Um, okay, moving on.

I knew then I had fucked up good. Too many things were going against my favor.
I didn’t expect much

I got an email a week later saying: Congratulations! You’ve been selected to
work at XXX company. I was surprised and ecstatic to begin. I started to type
a whole thank you letter, all professional and thanking them of allowing me to
give me a chance to work there.

Right before I hit the “Send” button, another email popped up in my inbox.

“We are sorry to inform you that the previous email was a mistake.
Blahblahblah. Best of luck.”

Dang.

Now, I always do a small practice run before going to interviews, and _always,
always, always_ , at least a dress shirt / dress pants to interviews - even
when they say “casual wear.”


##########
I had a job interview at a car dealership years ago, when they were looking
for someone to manage the websites and content for a network of local
dealerships in the tri-state area. Seemed like a good gig.

When I got there, the interviewer wasn’t ready. He’d forgotten we had an
interview scheduled. After making me wait about 20 minutes, he sat me down at
one of the sales desks, like I was a customer buying a car. He showed a
competitor’s website — a garish thing that looked more like a club promoter’s
page than a car dealership site — and asked me what would be involved in
replicating something like that.

I said what any normal, sane person would say: “You’ll have to give me time to
look at the site, the code, the way it’s set up, and we’d have to have some
conversations about where the content is coming from, workflow, expectations
and things like that.”

He said: “No, no. Look at this. You can do this in a few hours, yeah?”

At this point I’m annoyed because I realize this guy is not taking the
interview seriously and is not looking to hire an employee and do everything
above board, as the job ad described.

“No, that’s not something that can be done in a few hours.”

“I got a guy who says he can do it in a day.”

“Then why isn’t he doing your website, and why are we having this discussion?
I really think we’re not on the same page here…”

Basically I was trying to extricate myself from the situation without being
rude. I mean, I’m sitting there in a suit, expecting a serious job interview,
and this asshole is wasting my time.

So he takes a stack of post-its, peels one off, writes something on it, and
slides it across the table at me. It read: “$15/hr.”

I’m thinking, _Is this guy for real? Am I buying a fucking car here?_ It was
remarkably unprofessional. Clearly he had no idea of what’s involved with
creating a website from scratch with custom features, and he hadn’t even
thought about how to generate content. The money was an absolute joke.

I look at the post-it and respond with a flat “No.”

He says, “Let me talk to my boss. Hold on.”

Then he gets up, walks back to an out-of-view office in the rear of the
dealership, and comes back.

“Why don’t you start today? You can get started, work a few hours, and then we
can talk about compensation and all that other stuff?”

At that point I just needed to get out of there before my anger bubbled up, so
I stood up, shook the guy’s hand, thanked him for the interview, and left. He
made some noises about following up with me. We both knew he would not.

While it was a lousy experience, it did teach me to be more wary when
responding to job ads, and to get a clear idea of what the potential employer
is looking for before agreeing to an interview. Unfortunately this was during
the recession, a time when many employers felt they could take advantage of
people, and I was so eager to get out of the newspaper industry that I wasn’t
as cautious as I should have been.

 ** _Edit:_** _Just so it’s clear, I live in New York. This interview was in
Westchester County, the third-wealthiest county (by average income) in the
United States. The average income is about $140k a year. Not only is it
impossible to live on $15 an hour here, I would have had to live in my car as
a young professional with student loans. I realize Quora has readers from all
over the country and the world, and without this added context I may seem like
an ungrateful brat for calling the money “a joke.” Thus this bit of context._


##########
“I see you didn’t go to University, just something called Smith College in
America, and this position requires a University Degree.’

I had moved to London, and I was applying for a job in a field I had worked in
for many, many years, in NYC. In preparation for the interview, I secretly
peeked at the LinkedIn profile of the much younger woman who would be
interviewing me. She had the equivalent of an American Associates Degree, from
an unremarkable UK school, and about three years of total work experience.

Me: “I have a University Degree from Smith College, and…”

Her: “I’m not sure why you’ve been chosen to interview for this position. It
requires a university degree, and you do NOT have a university degree.”

Me: “I do have a University Degree from Smith College, which is a Women’s
University…”

Her: “Yes, but as I’ve already explained to you, this position requires an
actual University Degree, from an actual university, not just a College Degree
from a Girl’s School.”

I politely, and briefly explain that Smith College is not only a University,
but it is also in fact a very, very good University. (In the UK, they refer to
schools attended by 16 to 18 year olds as a College, so to be FAIR, even at
this point in our conversation, I felt that this was a Perfectly
Understandable Misunderstanding!)

Her: “Oh, I see, so it is a University for Girls, in America. Not very bright
of them to Misname it as a College, I’d say. Wouldn’t you? Sort of Strongly
implies that it isn't a very good school, don’t you think?”

I smile, shrug, and say nothing. I literally have no idea how to even respond
to that.

Her: “You haven’t even listed your A-Levels. Do you have your A-Level scores?”

Me: “No, because I went to school in America, not the UK, and we do not do
A-Levels in America.”

Her: “Oh, this position requires the completion of A-Levels. I’m afraid, once
again, you aren’t qualified for this position.”

Me: “I have a University Degree in this field, and X amount of years of
experience in the field, which technically surpasses the requirement for UK
A-Levels.”

I smile, politely.

Her: “Well, perhaps IN America it does, but with the lack of A-Levels, and the
suspiciously named, supposed-University, which is literally called a College,
I’m not AT ALL confident that you're AT ALL qualified to even interview for
THIS position.”

Me: “I have X amount of years in this field, performing this exact role, and I
can assure you that my University Degree from Smith College is not suspicious,
and that my University is in fact a very well respected univ…”

Her: “OK, but that work experience was all in America, not in the UK, so it
really doesn’t count at all HERE. And, as the hiring manager and supervisor of
this organization, I can assure you that in the UK, your college-university
degree IS suspicious, and it is NOT well regarded at all. I’ve never even
heard of that school. If your American school is SO well respected, why did
you not simply attend Oxbridge?”

Me: “I didn’t apply to Oxbridge. Did you, the Supervising Manager of this
Organization, attend Oxbridge?”

Her: “Well, no, but… I’m not the one being interviewed, and Irregardlessly… My
Supervisory Position, and my position as the Hiring Manager, does not require
an Oxbridge level university degree, so I’m fully qualified for my role.”

Me: “I see. Well, that probably explains some of your extreme and total
ignorance. _Incidentally, ‘Irregardlessly’ is NOT a word, and I’ve come to the
conclusion as I’ve interviewed YOU, that YOU are NOT Even Remotely Qualified…
to Supervise… ME.”_

Her: “EXCUSE ME… Says who? You, the rude, stupid American bloody Yank!”

Me: “Yeah, says me, the rude, stupid Yank-American, with literally four times
your education, and X amount more work experience, and a much better
vocabulary than you, my xenophobic little sister.”

Her: “What phobic?! What does THAT Mean?! What did you DARE to call me?”

Me: _“_ Xenophobic - Google it, along with Smith College. BYE-BYE!”

(OHMYGAWD, WHEN I FINALLY LEFT THAT HORRID INTERVIEW, I LITERALLY WANTED TO
DROWN MYSELF IN A PUDDLE! That was my VERY FIRST job interview in London. I
left that interview so upset, and fully believing that I’d never be hired for
ANY job in ALL of the UK! Anyway, it all worked out. Eventually, I ended up
getting a much better job in an entirely new field, with a MUCH more
‘International’ organization, for a lot more money. But, I will never forget
that terrible, ridiculous interview. Never.)


##########
Ooof…

My first interview ever was at a salon in my home town. I had friends who knew
the owners and everybody knew I was a nail lover and pushed me to go for an
interview. The owners weren't picky, they really wanted someone who was
hardworking and eager to learn. I had no experience but the owners encouraged
me to give it a shot to do a manicure to see if at least they had something to
start working with.

The thing is that I was living with my mother at the time and she was
completely against my working in such a fowl place being a slave to other
people picking dirt from under their nails. So I sneaked my way out that day
saying I am going to meet a friend and off I went to the salon. I went through
the manicure I was suppose to do to one of the owners just to see if I had any
chance of learning better. Everything was good they wanted me in I was amazed.
They proposed paying for classes as long as I wanted to stick around.

The incredible happens…

My mother walks in her dog in her arms bright coloured oversized dress as she
was overweight at the time, bright shiny glasses on her nose, she was in her
slippers as well….. Starts shouting at me and everybody else calling names and
racists comments ( the owners skin was not white) called the owner a gay black
guy like all black guys are , filthy gipsy and all the set. There is no way to
describe how I felt. Even after all these years instill get mad when I think
about it and I never really forgave her for that. Everyone is silent, there
were 2 other people that worked there present and a customer. Owner looks at
me with sympathy in his eyes and tells me is all good and just go with my
mother.

Apparently she suspected I would go and tracked down some of my friends who
didn't knew she wasn't supposed to know and told her where I was and why.

Hell broke lose at home but that's another story.

Funny thing is that after a week I get a call from the owner asking if I still
wanna go work there and that he understands and is not upset with me about the
situation. I end up working there for about a year. The way I quit is yet for
another story. The owner was not so good and nice as he appeared.


##########
It wasn’t that the interview was horrible, but what happened afterwards,
qualifies as REALLY disappointing

1981\. I’d been working for four years (first post-grad-school) in Maryland,
and several of my coworkers had moved to a similar establishment near Boston.
One suggested that I interview there, so I sent a resume, and the firm
arranged for me to fly up. I was to stay with one of my previous coworkers.

As I got on the plane on Sunday night, I felt a slight cold coming on. By the
time I woke up on Monday, it was a flu with a 100+ fever. But I felt that I
should do the interview. I carried aspirin and cold medicine, and lots of
tissues.

The second position I met for that day, was absolutely a perfect fit.
Everything. I immediately liked the potential boss, and got the strong
impression that it was mutual. The research area used just about every skill
I’d acquired in life and grad school and at my then-current position. The boss
held me over, despite my cold, to discuss tech aspects. All seemed perfect.
Only slightly-strange thing: The HR person who picked me up from his office,
was not the one who had dropped me off. But between the positive aspect of the
interview, and my being REALLY sick, I did not pay attention.

Flew back home. Spent a few days in bed. Recovered. Kept working, expecting to
hear from the other company, After a month, I was more than a bit confused,
and really disappointed. I mean, the interview (and the position) had been
perfect, except for the ‘flu.

I contacted the friend I had stayed with, and got the direct number for the
new boss. I called, and told him that I’d heard nothing, and was, frankly,
disappointed. To my surprise, he answered, “Dave. There's something quite
strange going on here, and I do not understand it. I will call you back, later
today: I promise!”

Two hours later, he called back. What had happened was this: The HR contact
who had guided me in the morning, had left the firm (while I was in the middle
of my interview). When my folder was returned to HR, the person sorting such
items was unaware of this, and had put it on the HR rep’s desk. When he saw
that it was still there that evening, he’d put it in the top drawer of the
desk, so it would not be lying about.

When the boss called HR after doing several other interviews, and said, “I
want this guy!”, they checked the “Recent Interviewees” folder area. My folder
was not there. HR called the boss back, and said “He must have withdrawn his
application: That is the only reason his folder would not be in that drawer!”
So, disappointed, the boss had had them make an offer to his second choice.
When the boss had called HR, they investigate, and looked around, and found
two folders in the top drawer of the (still-unoccupied) desk.

“Dave, you were my first choice, honestly. But the other applicant accepted
the position THIS MORNING, and I don’t have the budget for a second slot. If
that changes, I will let you know!”


##########
I can share my interview horror story. Only thing is that interview was not
for job, but for M.Tech admission.

In India, there is an entrance exam called GATE, for getting admission into
M.Tech program. This exam is common for all colleges in India, but every
college can conduct further exams and/or interview of the candidates selected
through GATE.

In 2012 GATE, I got decent score and I was shortlisted for interview in IIT
Kharagpur. Kharagpur is a very hot and humid place. Also it was mid of may
i.e. peak of summer.

On the day of interview, we were invited into a common hall. There were around
30–40 candidates. That hall didn’t have AC. Fans were rotating over our heads,
but they were of no use in 42 deg. celsius and high humidity. I was sweating
like hell. I was drenched as if I was just coming out of hot shower. After
spending 2 hours in that boiler like room, it was my turn for interview.

I went inside the room. That room had AC and it was maintained at less than 20
deg. celsius. As soon as I entered the room, I got a cold shock. My sweaty
body started freezing in my own cold sweat. I started shivering. My mouth was
jammed and my teeth started vibrating.

There were two interviewers and they also noticed my situation. They gave me
few minutes to become normal again, but that was of no use, as my condition
worsened. I couldn’t even tell them that my mouth is jammed. Finally they
started asking me questions in that situation. Questions were very basic, but
I was not in a condition to answer them. After asking 8–10 questions, they
concluded my interview. Obviously I could not answer any of them even though I
knew answers of all of them. Somehow I managed to come out of that freezer by
dragging my frozen body. After coming to normal I went to coordinator and told
everything and requested for one more interview. He went to interviewers and
after coming back told me that they had declined my request.

Btw later I cracked entrance exam of IIT Bombay and got admission. :)


##########
