Sure, why not? The same way you can mention that you have ‘ ** _been to the
moon”_** and back. Or may be that you have figured out “ ** _time travel_** ”?
May be ruining your career as well if you get caught. I don’s see any logic in
“ _not faking”_ your experience as well.

Not your fault entirely. We have been taught and fed like this, to follow
others blindly. You saw someone doing the same and decided to go for it. A
country, where you can fake all kind of certificates and documents, why not
try this one as well, right?

As you mentioned in the answer that you haven’t worked anywhere and that can
very well be a reason to have a thought like this in your mind. You can fake a
paper, not your experience. Let’s just consider a couple of scenarios, where
you get a job using your fake resume.

  1.  **Scenario A -** You get a job and start working with some small company for 15–20k. Why small company? Because only some non-existent companies will offer you a job, as in most of the big organizations you won’t be able to even qualify for the technical rounds due to no practical experience and trust me, **“** ** _you can’t fake the expertise”._** Now since you have got a job, you will have a lot of pressure because in a couple of weeks, everyone will expect you to work like a pro, and you my friend, are not. You might be asked to leave the organization soon. “Good use of time and efforts”? **No.**
  2.  **Scenario B-** The fear of getting caught will haunt you and you will be afraid to take any project or work, as you know that you can’t perform the way they expect you to do. It will take a toll on your work & mind and you will be in a much worse situation.
  3.  **Scenario C-** You fake the experience, got a job and then got fired cause you got caught. You get blacklisted by the company, you might get blacklisted by their connections as well. You lose all the chances of getting a job and have nowhere to go. **_Seriously, nowhere._**
  4.  **Scenario D** -You get a job, work in a great manner, make it big in 2 years and rule the industry.

Which one of these 4, sounds more realistic to you? Not **Scenario-D** for
sure.

As you have got a few years of gap, you will be in the reject list of many
recruiters, as above 6 months will be taken in a negative manner. So the real
question is, why would any HR or company hire you?

Since I have been doing a lot of hiring myself, a company is looking to match
most of the following while shortlisting you:-

  1. Relevant skills for the job
  2. Fit for the organization
  3. Your value addition to the company
  4. Willing to learn

 _Sounds better than faking a resume. Doesn’t it?_

 **But how do you do that?**

You see my friend, IT has seen a lot of changes in the last few years and
there is a huge demand and supply gap for various roles and the reason why you
couldn’t get a job.

 **Oversupply-** Technologies such java, DotNet, PHP etc. have hit their top
already and we have more than 1 million engineers graduating every year with
exactly the same skills in these technologies. Now if you go for these, there
are no options left for you as you will be one of those millions with no
addition to the company. In that case, a company will hire someone who
recently graduated, instead of you.

 **Over-demand-** New technologies such as Node.js, Golang, express.js have
shown such an instant spike in the last couple of years, that companies are
facing an issue with low supply of good engineers in these roles. They are
willing to hire people with the right skills, not considering their
backgrounds much and this could be the break you are looking for. _Going for
technologies, that have higher demand and lower supply._

 **How to start-** One more thing that you need to consider is that you can
not get a job in an MNC directly as you will have **less than 1% of chances**
now but you should go for start-ups which value the skill set you have and
offer good salaries between **4–7lpa** easily.

So my suggestion would be to **start learning the skills,** work on some
projects and understand the industry standards by **applying the skills** to
build a portfolio and after this, you can start working on your grooming,
professional profiles, resume and job search to **get hired**. Follow these 3
steps and you will thank yourself in a couple of months.

I can help you know some platforms to learn the in-demand technologies. You
can visit Upgrad, edWisor, simplilearn to see the offerings and choose the one
suitable for you.

While Upgrad and simplilearn focus more on certifications and your main
concern is to get an opportunity and not just a certification, I would
recommend you to go for [**edWisor.com**](https://goo.gl/QLc3S4) **** and they
offer you a job assurance after you learn and you will be able to secure a
much better opportunity as well. Now, this can be the right start for your
career.

 **Final suggestion-** Don’t loose hope and start looking in the right
direction. Forget the degree and forget the gap, just follow the path and the
steps mentioned above, you will for sure be in the desired position soon.

I will be glad to assist you with more queries if you have any. Feel free to
request an answer or connect with me.


##########
**Short answer:** Yes, there is an API marketplace called
[RapidAPI](http://rapidapi.com/?utm_campaign=Quora&utm_medium=link_Marketplace&utm_source=Quora),
which combines both RapidAPI and the Mashape API Marketplace into the world’s
largest API marketplace! ** _[disclaimer: I work for RapidAPI]_**

  

 **Long answer:** Yes, you should check out the
[RapidAPI](http://rapidapi.com/?utm_campaign=Quora&utm_medium=link_Marketplace&utm_source=Quora).
RapidAPI is an online API marketpl...


##########
Obviously you can do this, but you have to carry on in such a way that you
will be able to prove right what you are faking to them. (like previous
employment salary proof, Bank/Provident Fund Account proof etc that you cannot
fake).

For a startup or small company, they don’t have concern about experience. They
willing to hire freshers on good salary. All they need is to have employee
with that level of skill/knowledge in that domain, which justifies his salary-
package.

REALITY:- As you are fresher and you haven’t yet worked on any client project.
You are not aware of Agile, Coding-Guidelines, Debugging-tools, Version-
Control-Tools (used in company).So you will be easily caught in interview by
developer. Better is to not to take shortcut and start from scratch. There are
lot of freshers like you, who daily come with interview (handover Resume with
lots of projects mentioned and some development experience). They mention
almost all skills they know or just have heard of. Then they fail to
justify/explain the concept (cannot answer what is expected from him/her) and
ultimately throws bad impression.

WAYOUT:- If you are good Java developer fresher, go on HacherRank or similar
online coding challenge portals. Crack challenges as much you can. You will
get a very good package that you would have never expected.


##########
It isnt that hard. Just go find someone who makes fake certis (be ready to
spend your hard earned money) and update it in your resume and attend
interviews. But make sure you have same knowledge in Java to back up your
experience and dont be as fake as your experience on the resume.

But my friend, just think about it. If you are caught cheating and they find
out that the experience is fake. You will be black listed. And that is a
remark that will haunt you for the rest of your life. These high profile MNCs
will have a common portal (something like CIBIL for banks) where your ID proof
maybe be used to find any black dots in your career. So you decide. Dont do it
when you yourself think it is wrong. You may get away with this somehow but
what if youre caught? You ll be jobless forever. Work hard. Im sure you will
find a good job.

I can be an example here - I never spoke good english when I was looking out
for jobs and I was rejected in every company. But I never gave up. I worked
hard to learn it in any possible way. I read english news papers, watched
english movies and only spoke english even when my friends mocked me for
speaking broken english because I couldnt afford to take spoken english
classes. Im not saying I can now perfectly speak english without any mistakes.
But atleast my hard work never failed me. And the results werent spontaneous.
It took me 4 years. I can now confidently speak english and was the only 1 who
got selected out 100 candidates in a top MNC.

No pain no gain. Best of luck.


##########
Fine…. i accept that all who have answered to this ques… Had suggested the
right way…

But what about the present scenario… Every small & large companies requirement
s experienced guys… They are not even ready to test the person skills. Not
ready to give even one chance…..

Just imagine if there s any vacancy …..which doesn't mention anything about
experience or passing out year….jst mentions skilled people can apply…. jst
see the changes….

So if a guy is taking fake experience….then itz not his/her mistake…. he/she s
forced to do so….

Bcoz itz da matter of livelihood…. money….work…. in one word …..life…..


##########
