I got interview call from:

  *  **IISc Bangalore for M.tech in Nanoscience Engineering(Interdisciplinary)**
  *  **IITD for M.Tech VLSI Design Tools and Technology(called as VDTT)** which is also Interdisciplinary

I attended both the Interviews and I got selected in both of them :-)

I wrote GATE exam in Instrumentation this year(2018) and secured AIR 28. I’m
from Biomedical Engineering background. Since I have more interest in
electronics, I chose IITD VLSI over IISc Nanoscience. The answer will be a
little long, so brace yourself!!

 **IISc Interview Experience:**

I reached Bangalore on Sunday, May 13 and stayed in PG which is near to
Nanoscience Department. I visited the department on the same day and it
started raining as soon as I entered the campus. You won’t believe, the campus
looked liked heaven with greeny look and rain added more beauty to the campus.

> Coming to the interview, it scheduled for 3 straight days from May 14-May 16
with 3 panels. My interview is in first slot i.e. 9:30 AM on May 14. I went to
the department on-time and marked my attendance. They asked me to sit in a
waiting hall. After 30 minutes I was called for Interview. There were 3
professors inside the interview room. One professor went out as soon as I
entered the room. So I was interviewed by 2 professors. They had my details
which I had given in application in their PCs. I had given Nanoscience in
first preference as I’m interested in it.

>

>  **Professor 1:** Tell me about yourself.

>

>  **Me:** My name is Hemasai. I did my BE in Biomedical Engg from PSG College
of Technology.

>

> Professor 1 interrupted me..

>

>  **Professor 1:** Why you wrote GATE in IN and What is your AIR? (In
application they have asked only for GATE score)

>

> ME: I wrote it as it related more to Biomedical and there is no separate
stream in GATE for Biomedical . My AIR is 28.

>

>  **Professor 1:** Good!

>

>  **Professor 2:** Why are you interested in Nanoscience and why did you gave
it in first preference?

>

>  **Me:** There is a great scope for Biomedical research in Nanoscience and
I’m interested top do research.

>

> Then they asked about my final year project, which I explained well and they
asked few formulas which I used in my project.

>

>  **Professor 2:** Draw a sinc function and write its mathematical
derivation.

>

> I did it with ease.

>

>  **Professor 1:** Can you draw the graph for 1/(1-x^2)

>

> I plotted graph immediately and drew it wrong initially.

>

>  **Professor 1:** Take your time and draw the graph correctly.

>

> After taking little help from the professors, I drew it correctly.

They asked me to leave after his question. My Interview happened for 15
minutes and the professors were damn nice. I was so confident that I will get
selected. **After 12 days of my Interview I got offer letter in mail from IISc
Bangalore.**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-d17c372cdafa42c0f8245a03ee5b5203)

 **IITD Interview Experience:**

I reached Delhi on Sunday, 20th May. i stayed at my friend’s home which is
20km away from IITD.

VDTT is an Intediciplinary course under Electrical Engg Dept, CS Dept and CARE
(Centre for Applied Research in Electronics).The cut-off is 770 GATE Score for
general candidates and mine is 801.

First round of this Interview is held on 21st may. Around 80–100 people were
attended first round. There were 4 panels( 2 panels for circuits and 2 panels
for devices). It’s the choice of students to select either circuits/devices.

I selected circuits. I was the second student interviewed that morning. 2
professors interviewed me.

>  ** _Professor 1:_** _Tell me about your Engg background._

>

>  ** _Me:_** _I told that I’m from Biomedical background._

>

>  ** _Professor 2:_** _Why did you applied for VDTT and why did you appeared
for IN stream in GATE?_

>

>  ** _Me:_** _Sir I’m interested in Electronics and IN is more related to my
Bachelor’s degree._

>

>  ** _Professor 1:_** _If you’re interested in Electronics why didn’t you
take EC in GATE?_

>

>  _After some heated interaction they asked technical questions. They prepare
few questions before the interview and asked me those questions. They asked me
to draw the output of few RC circuits one by one for a rectangular input
without using mathematical derivations/ Laplace Transforms._

Same questions were asked in M.Tech Integrated Circuits Interview. You can
refer those questions in the following answer:

[Sudeep Thakur's answer to What are your IIT MTech interview
experiences?](/What-are-your-IIT-MTech-interview-experiences/answer/Sudeep-
Thakur-9)

I was able to answer 3 out of 4 RC circuits. That’s all they asked me in
preliminary round. the results were announced around 8PM and I made it i the
second round. 39 people were selected for second round.

 **DAY 2: This is sponsors round**

A total of 6 companies sponsored this year for 18 seats. Those companies are
**TI** (Texas Instruments) **, Qualcomm, Cadence, Aura semiconductors and two
startups (Haskell communications and Sensonics devices Pvt Ltd)**. After 2
hours of PPT presentations by sponsors, we were asked to fill up preference
form.

My order of preference was this: **TI, Qualcomm, Aura, Sensonics, Haskell.**

I didn’t took Cadence as I’m not interested in their projects.

 **TI Interview:**

Very basic questions on OP-AMP were asked. I was doing good until I screwed up
on one simple question. That question is:

>  ** _Q:_** _What will happen if you interchanged +,- in inverting OP-Amp._

>

>  ** _My ans:_** _Non-Inverting amplifier sir. (He asked me to leave after my
ans. The ans is Schmitt Trigger which it striked my mind as soon as I left. It
was a blunder!!)_

 **My second Interview was with Haskell and Sensonics combined:**

It was around 11:15 AM. Very basic questions were asked like few puzzles, my
final year project, etc,. I did well. The Interview went for half an hour.

 **Qualcomm experience:**

>  _I was the last candidate for the first round of Qualcomm. It was around
3:30 PM. Question on Diodes, MOSFETs, Zener and Avalanche Breakdown, Flip-
Flops, Logic Gates, Machine Learning were asked and I did very well answering
those questions immediately. I was said to be called for second round but they
didn’t call as they already shortlisted candidates. The Interview went for
around 15 minutes._

 **Aura Semiconductors Interview:**

Similar to Qualcomm, I was the last candidate to be Interviewed for Aura.

>  _They seemed a little angry as I gave it as 3rd preference and they asked
me why so. The time was 3:50 PM. The selected candidates based on one round
only. my Interview went for 20–25 minutes. Many questions were asked from
MOSFETs, RC circuits, BJTs, Signals, Transfroms, Digital Electronics, etc,. I
did pretty well but they didn’t select me as I gave their company as 3rd
preference._

 **After few weeks I got mail from VDTT office that I got offer from Sensonics
Devices which I happily accepted.**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-39db34f137940700a0876c7c7d3261e0)

 **I chose IITD over IISc because of the course. I’m pretty much upset that
I’ll miss IISc campus!**

 **I’ll be joining IITD** on 20th July.

 **Edit:** People who are asking about how I prepared for GATE, please read
this:

[HEMASAI KUMAR's answer to What's your GATE 2018 result and are you satisfied
with it?](/Whats-your-GATE-2018-result-and-are-you-satisfied-with-
it/answer/HEMASAI-KUMAR)

P.S.: For people who wonder why I selected VLSI in M.Tech with Biomedical
backgound: B.E. Biomedical Engg is an Interdisciplinary course consisting 40%
Instrumentation, 10% Mechanical/material science, 20% Programming(Signal &
Image Processing), 30 % others (Biology). In my BE I got passion in
Electronics.

Happy Reading:-)

Suggest any edit if required.!

-Hemasai.


##########
My IITD interview was scheduled on 24 May, 2018. I have made up my mind to not
join IITB and join IITD(due to location preference). I was setting my foot
inside an IIT for the first time in my life. The first shock came when I
entered the college gate. I asked the guard where is **** hostel. As I was on
foot he started smiling and politely replied beta wo hostel to 2 kilometer
door hai. Then I remembered that this is not NIT srinagar(My B tech college).
It is one of the most prestigious IITs. How naive of me to underestimate its
campus area. While I was thinking all this an auto came from inside the
campus. The guard stop that auto and asked him to take me to the hostel. I
reached the hostel and told the receptionist that I have come for M tech
interview. I was asked to pay Rs800 for two day day boarding and mess facility
usage. I was then allotted a room. I met some other candidates and spent the
whole day roaming here and there.

On the day of interview first there was a briefing in which Professor Sarangi
gave us details about the interview process. Points from the briefing:

  *  _A candidate has to score at least 7 points out of 10 in the interview to be even considered for M tech programme._
  *  _A candidate has to score at least 9 points out of 10 in the interview to be considered for MSR programme._
  *  _Weightage given to GATE score would be 70 percent. 30 percent weightage would be given to interview._
  *  _Even if only 10 candidates qualify the interview, IITD would proceed with only those 10 candidates. No compromise on quality and no waiting list._

After this we were asked to sit inside a waiting room. My turn came in the
very last. I entered the interview room to find 3 people sitting there. I
greeted them and they asked me to take a seat. After this the 1st person asked
the following questions:

  1. What is quicksort?
  2. Can you find the kth largest element in an array using the approach taken by quicksort?
  3. Write the code for that algorithm?
  4. A rectangular grid was drawn and I have to find the number of paths from one corner to another?
  5. Write code for printing all paths in question 4?
  6. Find the recurrence relation for the recursive solution that I wrote for Question 5?

I was able to answer all questions completely except question 3 where the
professor confused me and then I got stuck.

The first professor was satisfied. After this the 2nd professor asked

  1. Give the mathematical proof for If a number is divisible by 3 then the sum of digits must me divisible by 3 ?

I said I don’t know and then he asked the 3rd professor to ask questions?

  1. He explained a processor (which can have infinite number of cores) and then told about a program where the sequential part is 20 percent and rest is parallel. He then asked to find the minimum number of cores required to achieve 10 times speed up?( A tricky one)
  2. My answer to first question made him happy. He made some changes to the above question and asked me to solve the question. I don’t remember that question now. This was the last question of the interview.

 **Result: selected for M Tech but joined IITB.**

 _You can read about my other interviews at_[ _From 0 to
1_](https://kishanku56.quora.com) _._


##########
I belong to civil engineering, I will list out the interview calls I have got
thorough GATE - 2017!

  1. IIT Madras,MS Ocean engineering
  2. IIT Madras,MS Civil engineering
  3. IIT Kanpur, MS civil engineering
  4. IIT Kanpur, Mtech (WRE, Geotechnical and Geoinformatics)
  5. IIT Kharagpur
  6. IIT Gandhinagar, Civil engineering
  7. IIT Delhi, (Water resources engineering and Rock mechanics)
  8. IIT Guwahati, eligible for direct admission and interviews also
  9. IIT BHU, Civil engineering and material science
  10. IIT Roorkee, All the departments applied

I was called for these institutions but I gave only interviews at IIT Madras
and IIT Delhi due to clash of dates and health issues. But I was lucky and got
success in 2nd college I attended the interview! As it was one of the top
colleges in India I didn't take much tension to attend others.

Before I attending these interviews, I got direct admission offer from IIT KGP
in ocean engineering in first round, I declined and I was officially thrown of
KGP for not participating.

Now only thing left was to crack interviews.

 **IIT Madras, Ocean engineering** :

I reached one day before and room was alloted for me, food was nice, I loved
the place!

Next day I walked till Ocean engineering block which was 2km away from hostel
area, in the morning also I could feel the humid of Chennai, when I reached
the block I was almost in sweat. The test was about to start at 9 AM, but they
proceeded the pre-talk upto 9:30 AM and sent us to exam hall. Honestly I
didn't prepare anything, the questions were too tough for me, although I did
some mathematics and core civil well. The result was put up at 12:00 and guess
what! I was selected fortunately or unfortunately. I was facing problem with
kidney stones and for my fate, it started to stab me in the back and feeling
nausea and vomited in the washrooms! I was pretty sure I can't attend
interview then, so I went to room and took painkiller and had a nap, it was
already 4:30, I knew interview would be over, I was disappointed but thought I
could come better next week for civil engineering interview and left Chennai
for Bangalore.

 **IIT Madras, Civil engineering MS** :

I prepared well after that tough day at Chennai, I went to Doctor and had some
precautionary measures.

This time I prepared well for maths, Geotechnical and transportation
engineering. I went there with my father so that I can feel safe in that
health situation, I was very happy by the environment present at that day, I
didn't prepare the night before, had a nice sleep.

I took bus this time to reach civil engineering block, then there was some
introduction, after that they sent us to write the exam.

The exam pattern was such that, we have to attend 2 subjects or 1 subject of
our choice! For safety I attended 2 papers (1 hour each)!

I gave Geotechnical first and transportation next! Geotechnical was easy, but
numerical part was little confusing but I did well! Then I gave
transportation, it was very very easy, everything was basic and basic
mathematics in each paper. I thought I could crack written of both! After
exam, we were proceeded to some classroom to wait for results and after one
hour result came and meanwhile we were doing documents verification!

Results out!! And I couldn't make in Geotechnical but I was shortlisted in
transportation, I knew I will easily get this as I marked 90% answers
correctly.

After this, interview, the biggest hurdle! Almost they were taking interview
for about 40 minutes, I went in after waiting for 4 members!

As I went in my confidence went low, as I saw some of the best professors of
nation! The panel consisted of 8 members, looked like a round table
conference! I wished them and entered.

 _Professor 1 : Please, have a seat._

 _Me : Thank you sir!_ (low tone)

 _Professor 2 :_ (after saying something to his colleague in Tamil) _Tell me,
which topic you are okay with._

 _Me : Highway Geometric Design._

 _Professor 2 : Difference between Simple and compound curve? Can you write
the transition curve on this sheet?_

It started like this, and I was nervous I couldn't perform well, I was not
answering well, meanwhile they were giving so much clues! Asked me to explain
layers of road on board, and all the professors grilled me! Each time I
answer, they'll give a smile and look at each other professors, I had no clue
what was going on :( I looked at watch it was already 30 minutes over after my
entry. And then…

 _Professor 3 : You're looking so weak in technical, at last, you give us a
topic we'll ask from that part._

 _Me : Traffic engineering._

And they asked all the basic questions from traffic engineering, luckily I
answered them all. Finally they allowed me to go after 50 minutes! And
sarcastically said All the best :(

I knew I screwed it, disappointed! And went to catch a bus and one guy who was
interviewed after me met me at the canteen, he told me that his interview
didn't go as well. I got little hope atleast at that instant. I sacrificed IIT
Kanpur and Gandhinagar for this. I said to myself, ‘ **you moron, last time
you didn't study, this time didn't prepare for interview, next you'll go with
mastering in both part or else stay’**

After this I went to room and returned back karnataka next day!

I went home, I had 11 mm kidney stone right side (I found it through CT Scan)
Doctor suggested that I can pass with pain naturally or else I have to go
under laser technique to remove! Asked me to stay in my hometown only
(Karnataka), but I told my father at any cost I have to attend ROORKEE, my
last hope.

I forgot to mention, I also left atmospheric Science and applied mechanics
interviews at Delhi due to Madras dates. But fortunately I had a shot at Delhi
in civil engineering on 25th! I booked a flight to Delhi and planned to reach
Roorkee on 30th so that I can finish both, but I had all hopes on Roorkee, but
with no hopes I went to Delhi. I was very fortunate and the kidney stone just
passed a week before interview :)

 **IIT Delhi, Mtech interview Civil engineering** :

I went to Delhi a day before, they alloted me a room and I have to say Delhi
was so humid that day, hitting 47°! And being a Kannadiga, I never faced that
extreme temperature, and in the same time no AC in hostels! ‘no pain, no gain’
and it was great to stay there though!

Next day, I took a cold water bath and had a quick bite and left for civil
block! First I went to register for MS seats and came back to Mtech section to
register my name in interview list. And in Delhi, there was no written test
but only interview. After 2 hours they called me, and told me that next is my
turn to go in, as I was standing outside I was thinking, should I act
innocent? I remembered IITM where people judged me as unconfident! So I
planned to be confident and should impress professor in different way! I have
nothing to lose, I already screwed up madras and I had seen cutoff of all
candidates in interview list and there were many people ahead of me, anybody
looking at the my position anyone could tell me, ‘go dude, it's not your day’!
Anyway I don't get here, I have huge hopes on Roorkee, either I get it or I
will screw, lemme give a confident shot I thought and went in. **Carefree**!

It was a panel of 4 members, aged more than 45+ for sure! Oh my God! How can I
handle this now? Nothing to lose, and things went like…

 _Professor 1 : Your application says you're from Karnataka?_

 _Me : Yes sir._

 _Professor 1 : Which place in Karnataka?_

 _Me_ : (thinking he's from South India, looking at his body language)
_Chikmagalur sir._

 _Professor 1: Such a nice place, I think it is hill station. What's the
Altitude?_

 _Me : Sir 1200m_ (wild guess, actually 950+ it is)

 _Professor 2 : Oh, nice! What is the temperature at night?_

 _Me : 20° I think sir._

 _Professor 3 : Haha, We never get that in summer here!_

 _Professor 1 : Why did you come this far to study?_

 _Me : I wanted IIT Delhi sir._

 _Professor 1 : Why no colleges there?_

 _Me : My first and last choice was IIT Delhi sir._

 _Professor 2 : Okay, tell me what is outcrop, Strike and unconformities?_

 _Me_ : (answered about unconformities) _I don't know others sir._

 _Professor 3 : Tell me honestly, did you study about this topic or not? Tell
me what you know atleast._

 _Me_ : (I told about the subjects I am going to study in mtech in that
programme, which I checked just before interview) . _I know this much ma'am ,
but I came prepared for mathematics ma'am!_

 _Professor 1 : Okay My mathematics days are over!_ (taking a book from side
and wrote a problem involving triple integration and asked me to solve, I
pretty much know that professor was well versed in mathematics too! But he was
tricking me) _Go here, solve this!_

 _Me_ : (started to solve,did 2 steps correctly, he stopped me and said OK
enough) _but sir._

 _Professor 1 : You may leave, interview is over._

 _Me : Sir, but I can solve._

 _Professor 3 : It's over. Send me the next candidate._

As I started to move out,

 _Professor 1 : Look, you have to learn to face 30° nights for the next 2
years in summers!_

Me : (Just smiled at them) (Inside, I felt like, thanks for the sarcasm and I
have already had this at Madras)

And left the building and reached room and a long nap after food. Woke up and
thought ‘ **Delhi bhi aukat ki bahar** ’ and started to chill thinking about
Roorkee.

And next day also, I stayed in IIT Delhi hostel, and after that I booked 3
days at hotel to fill the gap between Roorkee and Delhi dates.

Next day evening, results were out! Guess what, I was selected! I can't even
believe that, how did I make it!? I was very happy, those professors really
liked my approach and my intent of joining Delhi, even the better rankers
couldn't make it! I didn't think other things, just started to read about IITD
on quora.

Next day, I went to Gurgaon and met my friend, and went to Pizza Hut with her.
I came to hotel that evening, and oh man, AC gave me a new life there! And
watched South Africa vs England match! Next day, I went to India Gate,
Humayun's tomb and aksharadham, I was exhausted and reached the hotel. Next
day I went to palika bazaar and involved in bargain game and didn't buy a
thing. In the evening, I met my other friend and roamed in connaught place,
and reached hotel very late. I wasn't feeling well, I was drinking about 6
ltrs water but water output was low, I phoned my doctor and he said that I
have to make my way back, as fragments of stones maybe causing problem. As I
got a shot in Delhi, I decided to leave all the IITs atleast for others, and
unfortunately I had no choice to make my way back, I went to travel agent to
look for flight and there was no seat available in economy class, so he
insisted me on tatkal train ticket and to my luck, I got a train from
Nizamuddin to Bangalore! Happily, I did shopping and enjoyed all the foods of
Delhi and next day morning I made my way to Karnataka!

I didn't try any interviews after that, I am happy with this, whatsoever!
Sorry for the long answer, hope you have some idea, how things go in mtech
interview! Thank you for reading my non-sense stuff! I forgot to mention, I
was not selected in IITM MS but waitlist is yet to be announced, fingers
crossed! But not going to Madras though, I want my name just for my
satisfaction :)

Thank you! Cheers :)

Edit 1 : Finally I got a seat in IIT Bombay and got admission on 07.07.2017
through spot round! I feel I'm very very lucky to get my dream place :)


##########
**LONG ANSWER AHEAD : IISc and IIT D interview experience EC branch**

 **IISc :**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-7660466e058775f999d3aeda7f92e67a)

So on 22nd I wrote written test for VLSI and ESE .

 **Test type : Descriptive . Logic and steps matters , final answer doesn’t.**

 _ESE Written test questions :_

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-c0a198a324bd3ec236b55fd5aa5f972c)

Image taken from my youtube video series [My IISc INTERVIEW Experience -
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLpdrqkhk4i42-wg9jXUSziw0fFDjTtr2v)
.

 **NOT SHORTLISTED .**

 _VLSI Written test questions :_

  1. Energy vs Momentum of Free Particle and Particle in a infinite square potential well
  2. Fermi level and fermi energy
  3. Given non Linear element with operating points V1,I1 V2,I2 …..Vn,In   
What is the easiest way to measure the loop current . (Supply and a Resistor
is given

  4. Design a state machine for 101 ,1010
  5. 3 bit numbers a>b comparator design
  6. Internal Block of 555 is given. Explain astable operation. Derive f. What happens when R is changed C is changed .
  7. Circuit under test has 5 analog voltage outputs. Single Channel input ADC is given. All 5 voltages have to be converted to Digital values.   
We are provided with 5 analog switches (implemented as transmission gates )
and 5 D flip flops

  8. 5 inverter ring oscillator setup given . Inverter implemented using CMOS . Device parameters given . Find f
  9. Interfacing between 3.3V NOR and 5v NAND is asked. Provided with Voh Vol Vih Vil .

 **RESULT :SHORTLISTED .  
** Approx 120 students were called for interview

Single professor . 4 panels.

Interview questions :

General : College , rank , why not job , why not psu , why drop year

  * Draw the graph of x e^-x sin x
  * Voltage gain of 2 CMOS configurations ( in both PMOS had ro)
  * High frequency analysis causes what ? Derive miller effect
  * Transient and conservation of charge with 2 capacitors and 1 resistor

Answered all questions with / without help of professor.

 **RESULT : Offered seat in COAP round 1. (My 1st preference)**

 _Signal processing Interview Questions_

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-eaa9c2fffd451d351f02cff51e14d982)

Communication and Networks Interview Questions :

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-799ffb8e7af3a2773a0feb000fdc5823)

 **IIT Delhi Experience :**

 _VDTT programme : (Around 100 people were called)_

  *  _Basic C programming and algorithms test (20 minutes)_

  1. Sorting Algorithms (time complexity)
  2. a b ‘n’ element arrays if merged into 2n elements how long does it take to execute ?
  3. A is n element array from 0 to n-1 how many iterations to sort?
  4. C output logical and , functions
  5. Recursive function based output question
  6. Power calculator based condition question
  7. Base 7 number conversion
  8. 2s complement
  9. A number Divisible by 3 or 5 or 7

  *  _2nd written test which consists of 5 subjective questions_

1.RC circuit, CR circuit. output for Pulse input.

2.Metal- n-si p-si junction CV graph

3.Cmos inverter

Vin is 0 to 1s ramp ,1 to 2s 5 V , 2 to 3s ramp down

Sketch i(t)

4\. Ax=λx

λ1 ,x1. λ2,x2 given

Evaluate (A+AT) (x1+2x2)

5.Second order linear DE given. Solve using circuit.

  * Followed by professor interview.

  1. NI amplifier expression
  2. R changed to L what happens
  3. Inverting amplifier draw and Ri Ro
  4. Laplace transform proof of dx/dt
  5. Looking through the source what is the impedance if Drain resistance is inf,0, finite

 **Shortlisted for Sponsors Interview (45 people)**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-f929b89f0c4096d27913cf2724722dce)

 ** _Cadence Interview (ML profile) :_**

Why cadence

Programming classes ,polymorphism, inheritance

  1. Array consists of N+1 elements 1….N one number twice

How to find duplicate

2\. If any number is there in array in any order twice and one number occurs
once

How to find single time number

ML basics : Being an EC student I am not in touch with programming concepts
and I don’t know the basics of ML . But fortunately few days before the
interview , I had seen a Youtube Series on the basics by one of my favourite
creators : **3Blue1Brown** [Neural networks -
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLZHQObOWTQDNU6R1_67000Dx_ZCJB-3pi)

So I explained the basic concepts .

 _Participated in a 2nd round (HR)_

 ** _AURA SEMICONDUCTOR (analog , rf)_**

  1. Ro, Cl given for Nmos Common Source Amplifier.  
Draw the Bode plot , what happens if Ro is high , gm is low and so on. Gain
increases , gain decreases,what happens to the plot.

  2. A circuit with 1V 1 ohm S1 1H llel S2 1F is given . Transitent conditions for switches is given .Tank circuit, Amplitude ,Oscillation explanation asked.
  3. 2 NMOS circuit. Output impedance from Drain of 1st Mos
  4. Tank 10^6 incoming water for 30 days.10^5 outgoing all time. How long does the city sustain .

 _Got a call regarding tentative list and when I would be able to pay the fee,
Cadence had tentatively selected me._

 ** _IIT D , IEC interview:_**

Written test questions

MOS CAP , QV Graph

Mealy circuit

ADC-DAC (Sampling question)

NI amplifier and schmitt trigger waveforms.

 _Interview was based on these questions._

Final Result : Didn’t wait for Round 2 (ie participation of IITD , IIT K)

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-4792201f834eac0713116b053e2374b5)


##########
[Interview Experience for IIT BOMBAY (EN) and IIT DELHI (JES) Mtech Program in
ENERGY ENGINEERING from Electrical Engineer’s Point Of
View.](https://travelingelectron.wordpress.com/2016/06/11/interview-
experience-for-iit-bombay-en-and-iit-delhi-jes-mtech-program-in-energy-
engineering-from-electrical-engineers-point-of-view/)


##########
For Computer Science Only:  
  
You can find the below experiences of mine :

IIT Bombay (M Tech RA) (2016) :  
[http://www.techtud.com/bl…/iitb-ra-interview-
experience-2016](http://www.techtud.com/blog/iitb-ra-interview-
experience-2016)

IIT Madras (MS) (2016):  
[http://www.techtud.com/…/ms-interview-experience-iitm-
ms-20…](http://www.techtud.com/blog/ms-interview-experience-iitm-ms-2016)

IIT Hyderabad (M.Tech TA)(2016):  
[http://www.techtud.com/blog/iith...](http://www.techtud.com/blog/iith-ta-
round-2-2016)

IIT Hyderabad (M.Tech RA)(2016):  
[http://www.techtud.com/blog/iith...](http://www.techtud.com/blog/iith-ra-
interview-2016)

IIT Delhi (M.Tech TA) (2017):  
[http://www.techtud.com/…/mtech-interview-experience-iit-
del…](http://www.techtud.com/blog/mtech-interview-experience-iit-delhi-2017)  
IIT Kanpur (M.Tech TA) (2017):  
[http://www.techtud.com/…/mtech-admission-process-
experience…](http://www.techtud.com/blog/mtech-admission-process-experience-
iit-kanpur-2017)


##########
I got interview calls from

 **1\. IIT Delhi for M.Tech in Computer Technology**

 **2\. IIT Bombay for M.Tech in Geo informatics.**

 **3\. IISc for M.Tech in Smart Manufacturing**

 **IIT Delhi**

They conducted the interviews at lecture hall complex, which was magnificent.
The TAs were very supportive as I had to catch a flight in the evening and
hence asked them to schedule my interview as soon as possible. As I entered
the room, there were 3 panels, one for people from electrical background, one
for people from electronics background and one for, i guess, people from
Computer Science background. In my panel there were two professors.

Professor 1 : What subjects have you studied?

Me : Sir, Network, control, signal and systems…

Professor 1: Signal and systems? You have studied? Ok..

After that he asked me the following questions:

  1. What is an LTI System?
  2. What is that thing on the basis of which we can distinguish two LTI system?
  3. Define Transfer function. Not using Laplace transform but using impulse response.
  4. Given an impulse response, how do you find response for any other input. I said convolution. Then he asked me to write it. Then he asked me how can i say that this is the output. I told him that there is a proof that I don’t remember exactly.
  5. Then he asked me to take a discrete system.. and well well well, he guided me to the end of proof. I was not able to believe that I did it by myself. The way he guided was strangely awesome.
  6. Then they asked me few questions from mathematics and control.

 **IIT Bombay**

Here there was a written test also for GNR. It consisted of 2 parts. Part A
was all aptitude. And part B contained questions from Maths, signals and
system, communication.

There were 2 professors in my panel. The one asked few questions from
mathematics like  
What is Gaussian curve? What is bayes’ theoram?

The other professor asked few questions from signal and systems:

Asked me about nyquist criteria? Drew a perfect sinusoidal signal and asked to
find the Fourier spectrum? Then sampled it at nyquist rate and draw the
sampled curve. Then if it can be restored back perfectly if it is sampled at
this rate.

 **IISc Bangalore**

It was related to smart manufacturing.  
They asked me the approach to design a temperature control system which can
adjust temperature according to the need of the human being automatically.

I tried to answer using temperature sensor and fuzzy logic (as I used it
during 4th Bachelors project).

Another question was from mathematics. A 4*4 matrix. All 1s. And then asked
what would be the rank? What will be eigen values?

Verdict : IISc selected. IIT Delhi selected. IIT Bombay - Not selected till
now. Waiting for other rounds.


##########
Mine was of IITB for Structural Engineering.

To be called for interview, we need to clear the written test first.

I didn't study anything after knowing my gate marks through response as I
assured myself that I would get one of the old iits structural engineeing.
LAZYNESS at PEAKS. Happens with many.

Like all other aspirants I also attended the written test. I felt it was quite
easy as my basics were quite good. But I didn't satisfy, as I didn't attempt
an easiest question of 10marks, which could be solved just by formula
substitution. Result of the LAZYNESS..I forgot lengthy formulae.

Though I didn't regret, I just felt like,” I didn't prepare well, so I don't
deserved to be qualified the written test”..

But I attempted all other questions absolutely well except the easiest one.
So, I was feeling very low about qualifying the test.

After the written test, I went to hostel 16 along with my peers. And, decided
myself that I would not qualify and started thinking of travelling to guwahati
for counselling.

Meanwhile, all my peers went to check the written result. I called one of my
friends and asked him to check if my name was on the list to attend interview.
He said “NO”..

I felt a bit sad. And started thinking of packing the luggage. But after
20minutes, I just thought that why I should not check the list again with my
naked eyes..

Immediately, rushed to the academic area where the written results were being
shown in the notice board. And, I started checking the names one by one from
top, simultaneously my heart was beating super fast.

As going down along the names one by one..BOOM..my name was on the list.. I
was on cloud nine..and scolded my friend mildly for checking the list blindly.

Immeadialty rushed back to my room as the interview would start in next five
minutes. Dressed up in formals and moved back to the interview arena.

After waiting for nearly 1.5 hours I was called in for the interview.

Interview was purely technical. They asked exactly 3questions. This is same to
everyone. The questions were of good standard. I answered well..hope they were
correct too..

 **Result** : you know it.

Lessons learnt :

1) Never ask anybody to check your names whether they are on the list or not.

2) Attend as many interviews as possible, that will really give great
experience and you will get to know some good standard questions.

Overall my experience was really good.

Thank you.


##########
I attended interview only in **IIT Delhi** for **_IEC_** (integrated
electronics and circuit), as most of the IITs gave direct admission offer to
me.

The GATE score cutoff for this was 800 for General. All the students were
sitting inside a class waiting for their turn. When my turn came I went inside
the room and I saw around 4–5 professors each taking interview of 1 or 2
students at a time.

>  **INTERVIEW questions**

 _Firstly, they asked me why do you want to do this course and about my
favorite subjects._

I calmly handled this question and told him about my favorite subject i.e
**analog circuits** .

 _Then he took a white sheet of paper and drew a passive RC low pass network
and asked me if the input is a pulse waveform of duration 1sec then draw its
output waveform without using any mathematical calculations._

After that, he added a resistor in parallel with capacitor and asked me to do
the same without maths.

> After solving these two problems he said “let's see how far you can go” :-D

 _Then he again took the normal RC low pass network and added a capacitor in
parallel with resistor, with same pulse input he asked me the same to draw the
output waveform_.

This question took time as I was not allowed to use any mathematical analysis.

 _After this, he asked me to draw the cross section view of MOSFET._

At last he asked me to draw the output characteristics of MOSFET for different
values of Vgs and the relation between them.

 **RESULT** :- _Selected_


##########
I am a final year student.

Qualified **Gate 18**

 **Rank 1516**

Category **OBC**

 **Gate score : 586**

I got interview call from :

 **IIT KGP IITGN IITK(SPCOM) IITB (RA)**

Due to my semester exam, I was unable to attend any interview (Except IITGN).

So I decided to leave any one midsem exam & attend atleast one interview of
IIT.

I decided to go first **IITK,** Interview was on 4th of may.

At the evening, I was called for interview, there was a panel of 3 faculty
members.

Prof Aditya K. Jagannatham **(NPTEL Communication)** , Prof R.K. Bansal , Prof
X ( Maths)

First they ask me general question :

My introduction

Why do you want to do m.tech. & also in this specialization ?

Tell me about your B.tech. College

 **After this Main interview begins :**

Prof A: Tell me about Communication in a general way .

First I told what is the need of communication then I explained about Tx Rx
Block Diagram.

Prof A: What type of errors occur in communication ?

Prof A : Tell about Probability of error

After this They asked few questions based on probabilty (Binomial
Distribution)

Then he asked me about Signals​ & Systems​.

Now they switched to maths :

Prof X: What is the meaning of eigen value & eigen vector?

I explained in a mathematical way but they were not satisfied

Prof X: Physical significance of eigen value & eigen vector

Ok…Sir If there is a eigen vector on a plane with some magnitude let us assume
**j2** in which **2** tells about its eigen value where **j** tells about the
direction  & this is a eigen vector, If we shrink the plane then eigen value
may change but its direction will be same ,like this i was explaning as i
studied this answer on Quora :P

Prof X: Write a 2×2 matrix & find its eigen value , eigen vector .

 **Interview Over ! Thank you**

 **IITGN**

Written stage : Aptitude & english

Not qualified for Interview !

 ** _Finally ,_**

 **Selected At IITK (SPCOM)**


##########
I attended VLSI Interview in IITk, IITD, Communications Interview in IITD :-

  1. Analog circuits
  2. Electronic Devices (EDC)
  3. Digital Electronics (flip-flops , state diagrams )

In IIT Kanpur Interview they gave me the choice & asked me to choose either
analog circuits or EDC . So,I told EDC and Interview went entirely based on my
input !

In IIT Delhi Interview no choices like that, but all questions from analog
circuits , digital electronics .

 **P.S : Revising those 3 subjects before Interview will help u a lot.**

In IITD Communications Interview, mostly questions are from Probablity, Few
questions from Noise concept of communication. Others from digital modulation
techniques


##########
