**YES** I **walked out** of an interview in my **dream company** – **Google**
(in their Gurgaon office)

It went on like this - I once casually applied for a job in google, never
expecting to be invited in the first place. Well Its google after all, how can
I expect a call?

But I got a surprise call from Google HR a few days later, and she invited me
for the interview of an urgent opening 2 days later. She asked me - Can you
join from Monday and I had to keep myself from saying I am ready to join from
tonight's midnight.

I was over the moon and started celebrating that day itself. I was invited for
an interview in Google, that was not a small event in my life.

Then finally came the awaited day, I got ready for the interview early morning
even though the interview was scheduled at 3 o Clock. I was clean shaved,
wearing neat and tidy formals, Shirt was tucked in, everything was in place
and I was all charged up for the interview. I reached the office 3 hours
early, observed everything. From Dell written on the back of their computer
screen at reception to how 5 starish their toilets were, from super duper fast
lifts to how googlers were dressed up. (Don't even ask me about the
cafeteria). I was thinking - If I get selected here, my life is set forever.

I reached back on the reception at 2:30 PM after doing my lunch, waited on the
extra comfortable couch and when the watch ticked 3, I was excited beyond
limits. The really sweet HR came at 3:25, She took my first round, then I had
to get through another, then another, then another. After clearing 5 rounds
the clock was showing 6:30 and I was really happy but a tad tired. They gave
me a refreshment break and told me my last round would be with Ops manager
Anupama (Not giving her last name to safeguard her identity). I had to come
back by 7:30, I drank a super creamy cappuccino with a paneer tikka sandwich
in their cafeteria. Going back to interview room I waited till 7:50 when women
having a serious look on her face entered the room. (I actually wanted to ask
- Why so serious, Is everything okay? )

Thus the interview started, Introduction, past experience, Life, family, books
and then she asked me to define feminism, which I think I defined very well (I
was surprised at my oratory skills, perhaps it was the Google effect).

Then she asked few more questions and then asked - “ _Do you know whats
happening in our country these days?_ ” I was surprised at the bitterment in
her voice but couldn't decide what is the reason behind it?

and thus I answered - “ _Yes, there are few students in JNU who wanted
mainstream media and political attention and thus shouted anti-India slogans.
There were some actual India haters among them too who want to break India_ ”
(just 3 days back Kanhaiya Kumar and Umer Khalid were arrested for shouting
those slogans)

To which she answered - _“and they have put sedition charges on those
students, how is it justified? Indian authorities are suppressing the voice of
youth, Most of the students were preparing for civils, when I was in JNU half
my class gave UPSC and out of those half were selected_ ” She spoke few more
_anti-India_ things which I am unable to recall right now. ( Here I had
understood everything, why this question came, why the bitterment in her voice
and probably my interview was not going in the direction I wanted it to
proceed in)

I tried playing diplomatically after that, I said - “ _Yes the case is in
court and court will do the justice, those who are innocent will come out
clean.”_ Though she was not much convinced as she had clarified her hate for
India, but the interview got ahead.

She asked few more questions and then came the deciding question, she asked me
- _“Are you religious?”_

I said “ _not too much but I do attend family ceremonies.”_ She asked - _“Do
you pray?_ ” I replied – “ _Yes not always but I do when I visit the temple,
usually, I meditate_ ”

She asked _“to whom do you pray?_ ” I replied - “ _to_ _Krishna_ ”

Here the weird bitter look on her face was back and she spoke in a terrifying
bitter voice - “ _But Krishna was a huge casanova, he had affairs with
different Gopis, he used to be with a different gopi every other day. He had
3600 wives. How do you say you are a feminist when you pray to such a women
player.”_

She had gone beyond her limits, this was it, I had taken enough, Though I
stood up on this part but my blood was boiling since she had disrespected
India, no Google or Facebook job is worth the disrespect for my country and
culture. I stood up and said – “ _DON'T you DARE disrespect Lord Krishna, he
was the strongest feminist who has ever taken birth on this soil. Have you
ever heard Krishna Radha? No, as its always said Radha Krishna. His lover's
name is taken before his name is taken because he wanted it like that. To Save
the honour of one girl - Draupdi_ ****_and for her respect, he fought the
biggest ever war fought on the face of earth. And as per the gopi's, Lord
Krishna had 3600 avatars and each Avatar married a different girl. So go and
read Bhagwat Geeta, do some proper research before you speak and those who
shouted Tukde Tukde Hindustan deserve to serve lifeterm in Jail. Be within
your limits while you speak about someone’s country or religion._ ” and with
that, I picked up my bag, walked to the door, forcefully opened it, _slammed_
it back with equal force and left the building with a spoiled mood.

Yet what I gained was _experience_ , to share it here with you all on Quora.

But what is out of my understanding is How does Google employ such kind of
people? People who are Anti India and Anti society. (I don't have a problem
with atheists/any other religion until they don't have a problem with my
religion, I respect Karl Marx but my Indian blood boils when Marxists become
maoists and spew venom against my country)

Sundar Pichai - are you listening boss ??

 **Clarification 1 -** Writing this due to few comments. Well guys though I
walked out at religion part but I was shaken when she was disrespecting my
country. India is my first religion. When she started disrespecting my
culture, the water was already getting overhead.

And No, she was not doing it to test my tolerance. I could see the real hate
for India in her eyes. She hated the country she took birth in. She spoke a
lot more than I wrote here.

Enough was enough. I had two options - Either walk out at that moment itself
and kick the life changing opportunity I had got **or** to keep sitting there,
let her disrespect my country, my culture, my belief, my knowledge and land up
a job in Google but fall in my own eyes forever.

 _I am glad I took the first route.. No job is worth disrespect for my country
& my culture_


##########
**_Yes. With regret and elation._**

I landed an interview with C———— India Pvt. Ltd.. The organization is awesome,
the profile perfect, the scope for growth phenomenal. I am completely
ecstatic.

The consultant was very emphatic about the work culture, their ethics, their
expectations from their employees and their code of conduct. She exhorted me
to adhere to the said codes. I was primarily happy to comply since they were
in-line with my own work ethics.

So, the day of the interview dawns. They call it an Assessment Activity. I
reach before time. The assessment rounds begin at 11.00 am as per schedule.

Round 1 - Content Writing in English in a Note format. Finished well before
time limit. Round One Cleared.

Round 2 - Content Writing in Hindi in notice format along with problem solving
. Finished well before time limit. Round Two Cleared.

Round 3 - Media Handling activity with situation handling ability tested.
Round Three Cleared.

Round 4 - Presented a PPT I had prepared (as per the subject sent to me over
email) to the HR Head of the Unit and the second in lead (HR). Went through a
grueling Q&A about each and every slide. They even dissected the graphics I
used on each slide. The discussion reached a point where we were discussing
the departmental structure, who I would be reporting to and how that person
would be evaluating my work. (By this time, I’m thinking I’ve nailed it. I
start planning the changes to my daily routine that would be required after my
joining at this place.) So Round Four Cleared.

Round 5 - Final Round. Meeting with the Plant Manager. Starts on a fairly
routine note with something about me, my family, my achievements, who I’m
closest to, my failures in life etc. And then it meanders to a point where the
gentleman tells me that I would need to rise above judgmental people who would
be around me when I work for him. That there is a lady who is frowned upon for
being too friendly with him. She hugs him every time they meet. He looks me in
the eye and very emphatically states that it is the woman’s responsibility and
hers alone for a relationship to reach any point. (I’m thinking
“Relationship??”, “At Work?”. I start thinking that maybe he’s digressing,
some people forget the basic point and start talking irrelevant things
sometimes.)

Then he tells me that foreign dignitaries visit all the time and they’re to be
taken to dinner etc. I would be required to accompany the Plant Manager when
he entertains them. He also mentioned that he recently sent a person to a
great opportunity in the US, that the US Head Office asks him to recommend
people for posting in the US all the time and how he can mess up a person’s
chances but he doesn’t as he is very reasonable and humane.

By this time my scalp is prickling, ants have started crawling under my skin,
and realization has dawned. In the 15 years of my career, this was the first
time that I was facing an actual dickhead. Like really?? ….

From a posture of respectful attention, sitting with a straight back in the
chair opposite him, it takes me all of three seconds to make a decision, relax
back and almost sprawl across the chair. I was ready.

I’ve finally figured out what this is about. Maybe, he’s thinking that since I
haven’t reacted to his innuendos I’m accepting all what he has laid out. He
must not have taken into account my thick skull at not understanding the
situation sooner. He carries on, being more explicit with each passing minute.

He - “As a part of your job you’d have to network with government employees,
take them out for dinner, bond with them. You understand my point.”

Me - “Perfectly sir. So the networking can’t happen over lunch or coffee?”

He - “It’s not about a 9 to 5 job Sanskriti. You’d frequently be required to
stay after regular working hours.”

Me - “Sir, I believe an efficient person (working in the stated profile, non-
tech) manages to finish his/her work within regular hours. I don’t see the
need to prove my worth to the organization by staying in after hours.”

He - “Are you refusing to stay late?”

Me - “Sir, if staying back and working after hours is such an integral part of
the job, then right now you are looking at the wrong person.”

He - “Are you sure about this? Do you need time to answer this? Think again.”

Me - Smiling sweetly, “No sir, I don’t need time. I’m sure.”

He - (with a straight face…) “It’s already 5.30 pm. Should we conclude?”

Me - “Yes, I’d like to take your leave.”

When I stepped out of his office, I knew I wasn’t getting a call, no
appointment letter for me from there.

I called up the consultant. I narrated the entire incident to her. She was
incredulous. (I thought she would reprimand me for ruining a great opportunity
for myself as well as for her. And that I could have handled it better by
being crafty etc. etc.) “Did you really tell him that he was looking at the
wrong person?” When I said, yes I did, she went into peals of laughter over
the phone. She finally said, “Good for you girl. Wish I had your kind of
guts.”

So I walked out of that place after spending almost seven hours for an
interview, knowing I had it in me to work in this place, to excel at it,
regretting that I wouldn’t be able to do it because of one person and elated
that the lure of working for a brand, to go to Europe, did not weigh me down
enough to acquiesce to disgusting demands.

That’s my walking out story.


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
**The job sounded cool.**

I was being interviewed to manage training at a 5-star hotel.

The interview prep was perfect.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-7fc1ad51f1d7b4fae6f613eb3b23bf86)

They booked my flight. A driver met me at baggage claim. Bottled water and a
black folder containing my interview schedule and a welcome note were waiting
in the car.

At the hotel, the staff was expecting me. I was assigned a beautiful courtyard
room. Inside my suite was a fruit and cheese tray along with a handwritten
‘Thank You’ card next to it.

I was pumped about this job.

 **Then I went to the interview…**

* * *

There were four interviews in total.

The first three interviews went well. I liked the team, my future boss and the
people I’d be training.

The day wrapped up with the President and two VP’s.

Fifteen minutes into it, I was done.

They walked in late together, laughing and carrying on. _No worries_ \- these
things happen and they were having a good time…cool. I said, _“Hi.”_ They
didn’t respond and carried on. _No worries_ \- sometimes people get caught up
in the moment. They sat together at the end of the table, awkwardly far away
from me. _No worries_ \- they probably have their “spot.”

They ignored me for five more minutes - weird but whatever. I leaned forward,
arms on the table and tried to engage.

Finally, the president looked up at me, peering through the bottom of his
black framed glasses, like I was being interrogated by a high-school principal
for smoking in the bathroom.

He shuffled some papers, studied them for a second and asked:

 **President** : _“So, tell me, what was it like working in manufacturing?”_

 **Me** : _“I don’t know. I’ve never worked in manufacturing.”_

 **President** : __ More paper shuffling. _”Oh, okay. What’s your name
again?”_

 **Me** : _“Matt”_

 **President** : _“So, Matt, tell me about where you’ve worked.”_

 **Me** : [briefly explained my relevant work experience in luxury services]

 **President** : _“Hmmmmm”_

Then VP 1 chimed in. He felt it was his job to make sure I knew he was a VP -
you know, the kind who wear it as a badge of honor.

 **VP 1** : “ _It says here that you went to_ [a university I’d never heard
of].”

 **Me** : “ _You’re looking at the wrong resume._ ”

 **VP 1** : _“Okay. So why should we hire you?”_

 **Me** : _“Because…blah blah blah…”_

This was turning out to be a Mickey Mouse interview where senior management
reads about CIA interviewing techniques in Inc Magazine and decide to try it
out in the real world.

VP 2 decides it’s his turn.

 **VP 2** : _“So, Brandon, you said…”_

 _You gotta be kidding me._

 **Me** : _“My name is Matt.”_

I don’t know what was said after that. I didn’t care. I closed my folder and
mentally checked out.

Luckily, my buddy and his wife lived in the area and rescued me. I checked out
of the hotel a day early, canceled the return car service, dropped my luggage
off at his condo and went out for crab-stuffed Tilapia…or whatever it was.

Then I flew home the next day, emailed the hotel and broke up with them.

Air miles? _Check_. Swank hotel? _Check_. Hang with buddy? _Check_.

Pay with cash, credit or check?

 **No thanks.**


##########
Not me but i have a story of my roommate back in Delhi.

He was a chartered accountant and was working with an IT company, one fine day
he got a call from consultant that his profile is selected for XYZ LTD ( for
privacy purpose name is changed to XYZ) and position will be in Mumbai. He
must be ok with the relocation as he was bachelor that time and he was already
away from home.

When he was asked for the expectation for CTC he clearly told consultant that
he is looking for 100% hike and to check with the company before interview
that if they are ok with this.

After a week or so consultant again called and confirmed that company would
like to schedule the interview and his expected CTC is not an issue.

Here comes the day of his interview…..

Panel was taking the interview all was going well as narrated afterwards by my
friend, finally one of the person from panel came on CTC part and said

“we were told that you are expecting 100% hike on your current CTC, but we can
not offer you more than 50% on your existing CTC….”

his statement was not finished yet and my friend just left the room……… (can’t
really imagine to do so, or wonder if someone had ever did such thing)

Consultant called him after some time and he showed him with his anger and
frustration.

Funny part, He got that job with his expected CTC.

Lolzzz


##########
Yes, I did in the 7th round.

The venue was _Plobal apps Pune_. After serving Wipro Technology for 3 years,
it was my time for the new job hunt, Plobal apps was the first auspicious
company which give me a chance to prove myself. Being so studious I hadn't
failed in any interview before and wasn't planning on breaking the record. I
had prepared well for the iOS developer role.

It came out it's an open drive, more than 50 people arrived for the few posts.

 **Round-1:**

Pseudo code for 3 programming questions. We were asked to write down and leave
for the day. I completed only 2 programs, was about to leave but I was stopped
by their CTO to explain him/her what I wrote. I tried convincing them about
the logic but all in vain. They asked me to compile the program and gave me a
PC with clear instructions not to use the internet(I didn’t). Out of two
programmes, I completed one in no time; for the second one I was getting one
runtime exception which I couldn't or perhaps it was in front of my eyes but
in the moment of complete starvation I wasn't able to see it.

I sat on the PC for 7 straight hours. It was 9 PM in the night and whole day
there I was on complete fast without water. I guess it was inhumane from them
not to even ask me for a tea—which they had seven times with cookies,
nevermind. Fearing I won't find any commutation to go home; I said: “I am
sorry, this is what I could do.” and left for that day.

 **Round-2:**

I got a call from them after 10 days that I had been shortlisted for the
second round. I was happy that hard work paid out at last. It was a subjective
test of iOS concepts and Objective-C language command along with 10 C language
output based question. I answered all but one. I Cleared that round as well.

 **Round-3:**

Face to face technical round with a panel of two. Cleared them as well.

 **Round-4(HR ROUND):**

After clearing all the rounds here I was hoping for awesome salary
negotiation.

* * *

She entered the room.

“Saket, we are sorry I got to know one more round of technical test is
pending. you need to design some layout for us to know that you know
Autolayout(a concept in iOS programming)”.

“Ok I had already been through two rounds please schedule it for tomorrow.” I
said.

 **Round-5:**

I Was asked to prepare a screen which they got me from their UI developer. I
took 4 hours to do it. A guy (seem Tech lead of iOS team) came to me and
proceeded.

> He - You took 4 hours for this screen.

>

> Me - Yes I am not very verse with UI mostly I had been developing on the
business side in my current company.

>

> He - It was designed for 30 mins only. You have failed completely.

>

> Me - *looking at him with blank face knowing that he might take 6 hours
himself to design it*.

>

> He - I will let HR know about the progress please wait in the hall.

HR got to me soon enough.

“see Saket, we are very sorry to keep you so long in here. We really
appreciate you coming for the interview rounds day after day. Being a small
company we can't afford to have a weaker side in our employees. As you know
you didn't do well in interface round we are sorry to let you go. Wish you the
best in future”.

I replied: “I am very sure that I have done reasonably well from my end, I am
sorry if that didn’t suffice. Thank you for considering me for this
opportunity.”

After final rejection, I was pained badly; not because I failed, but for all
the leaves that I had applied in the current company for this job. It was
overall 4*1200( 4 days) = Rs. 4800 loss.

 **Round 6:**

After some 15 to 20 day. I got the call from the very same HR. When I saw her
number, a part of me was quite angry thinking: “what does she want now?”
another part of me was saying “oh boy your salary gonna get tripled“. I wish I
had cut this call but I couldn’t. She asked me to come and collect an offer
letter after a short HR discussion.

 **Round 7:**

It was offer letter day, I had forgotten all the past recruitment hassles or
should I say repeated insults, went there on complete formals. I Was asked to
wait for the HR in the hall. After 20 min waiting, an employee (a new face
this time ) came and said HR will not be coming soon. Our tech lead wants to
see you. I knew something nasty is awaiting. Tech lead went like:

> “Saket we haven't seen someone so strong in iOS so far that's the reason you
are here. But we have got a tiny bit of doubt in your analytical skills. Would
you like to help us out?” **I was looking at him with complete disgust I knew
his game by now. For some reason, he didn't like me from the day one this guy
never wanted me there.**

( I am Bihari too as the other guy who answered the question and I won't go
anonymous unlike him. From his(Tech lead) body language he didn't seem to like
Biharis at all.) He came with a new set of toughest ever programs for me to
write down. He gave me a chuckle. I knew this look, he was sure I won't be
able to write down. But by then I had enough of this nonsense of this company
called “Plobal apps”. I stood up and said “You know what, I don't have time
for this again. Today is the production day and I am supposed to be at the
current company” He was in shock, and I left.

A bonus round for the readers

 **Round - 8** :

Got a call from HR the next day. Once again apologising profusely for a
mistake committed by tech lead. In her words, he took me for someone else
whose first round he was taking, business as usual. I couldn't stop laughing
she sensed that I didn't buy this shitty lies. She said: “your offer is ready
kindly come and collect it today itself.”

Once again we are very sorry. I said upfront: **“I am not interested in your
offer anymore. Kindly hire someone to teach professional ethics to your
existing employee.** Later that day I got the call from the consultancy _CP HR
LTD_. They were the ones who put me there at 1st place. She asked me to behave
while taking to HR saying you can't speak like that be professional.

To that girl _Rolly_ at cp hr ltd; I had shown my real desi shade, she won't
be teaching moral now to anyone for sure.

The lesson of life:

 **If you get a bad vibe at first sight, trust your instincts and simply don't
go there again.**


##########
So not a stereotypical “walk out,” but I did terminate one a bit early in a
congenial manner, and the story is amusing in retrospect, but was rather
painful at the moment.

It occurred a little over a decade ago, when I was newer in the IT world,
working tech support. I'd gotten laid off abruptly, and was looking
diligently. A recruiter called me in reference to a resume I’d put in, and
explained that the position I had applied for was just filled today, but there
was another position on the related team, a little higher up and thus a
slightly higher pay grade. He asked some basic qualification questions, and he
was most interested in the fact that I had just completed my CCNA (Cisco
Certified Networking Associate), as the job required knowledge of Cisco’s tech
stack. I passed his screen, and he quickly set a tech interview. The next
interview was awkward, though, for two reasons.

First, there was logistics. The address they gave me wasn't properly listed on
the map. There were actually two different branches of this road, unjoined, a
mile apart. I had printed out Mapquest directions (this was pre-smartphone),
but had come to a metal guardrail and barrier at the end of the road. I called
the recruiter and got VM, called the front desk and was put on hold for 10
minutes, then disconnected. I finally called their secondary listed after
hours line (which turned out to be tech support), and after a brief hold,
talked to a very nice guy who laughed, explained that it happened all the
time, gave me directions (I had to basically circle around and approach from a
different major artery, which took a while), and offered to contact the
supervisor I was to interview with and explain I would be late. So I dash to
the interview and arrive to the lobby 10 minutes late. I'm a very punctual
person by nature, especially in professional situations, so this was something
that threw me off my game, and I was a little annoyed that if this was a known
issue, nobody gave me a heads up. Was this one of those employer tests that I
had failed? But, it got worse.

Guy comes in very quick and brusquely (no big, 90% of engineers in my industry
lack any social skills), but he breezes by me as I have my hand outstretched
to shake, introduced himself by name but not title, no preliminaries or small
talk (I wonder silently if this is rudeness or if I'm the a**hole here because
I'm late, regardless of reason). I apologize for my tardiness and inquire if
he was informed of the issue, he waves me off and repeats that it happens all
the time. Hurries me into a seat and starts firing technical questions at me.

About 20 minutes into our hour, I'm struggling. Normally in a technical
interview it's not necessary to know every answer, but you should know most,
be able to engage on problem solving, etc. I'm getting half the answers, a lot
of this is over my head (curious because the job description didn't specify
this and was paying market rate for a basic network support tier 1 guy at the
time, or about 38K a year). Plus, to add to the fecal matter dumpster fire
that was my mental state at this moment in time, I noticed two minutes into
the interview the reason the gentleman hadn't shaken hands, the minute he
started to write—he had a birth defect and had malformed hands. Basically,
take your hands, pull your palms as far towards your forearms as you can get
so they're pretty much at 90 degrees, and then picture that, locked. Now,
given my frustration and nervousness, this only served to aggravate things,
because I then proceeded to stick my foot in my mouth over an over again.
Seriously, it was epic.

Anyone ever see this [scene](https://youtu.be/9vvMKxDvAt8) from Wayne's World
2 with the “partially ocular albino,” where Wayne and Garth keep screwing up
and saying the word “eye” and cringing at each flub? That was me in this
horrible interview, but with the word hand. I mentioned not wanting to let
things get out of hand, said “"handily I'm acquainted with…,” and probably
said the word 5 or more times overall. The look on the interviewer’s face
spoke to a combination of bemusement and slight annoyance.

Finally, about 20 minutes into this interview, I definitively realized two
things. The first obvious part was that I was coming across as a nervous
bumbling dork. The second was that they were looking for someone with about
five more years of experience than I had then. So I stopped the interviewer
and asked him “I’m confused—your recruiter represented this as a more entry
level networking support position, focusing on primarily Cisco technology, and
yet you're asking questions that seem more advanced and center a lot on
Juniper as well, which I barely know.” He looked up from his notes (finally)
and apologized, explained that he wanted someone with at least a few years
hands on plus a CCNP, a certification above mine that indicated a much higher
level of knowledge. I politely said “I'm sorry sir, but that's not me. And if
that's what you need I really don't want to waste your time.” He actually
smiled and said “That's totally fair. I appreciate it. I was going to say to
you that you seem like a smart guy, but this really is a job for someone with
a minimum of three years under their belt.” He thanked me for my time, and I
left (without trying to shake his hand this time).

PS to the tale, last year I told this story to an engineer who is on one of my
teams. After he was done laughing at my awkwardness, he related that he had
worked there for three plus years, and knew of the manager in question, and
apparently he was a nice person. Though he did admonish me that I hadn't
missed out by not working there, and told me a lot of dark details about the
place.


##########
Thrice. I walked out of job interviews thrice.

 **The first and worst position is held by a Wipro interview,** which happened
two years back.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-69be3dd922273b2b752f732932f344ae)

Image source: [Wipro
Technologies](https://india.fandom.com/wiki/Wipro_Technologies)

The interviewer was a dumb piece of shit. He couldn’t frame his questions
well, but demanded answers. He failed to clarify his questions when I asked
for. He also showed unnecessary interest in irrelevant questions like the
Microsoft Windows version I use. He behaved from a position of authority and
assumed me in a relatively weak position because I was the job ‘seeker’ and he
was the job ‘giver.’

He felt threatened with the clarity of my thought process and was turned off
with my confidence. I couldn’t passively accept the psychological abuse. Not
only I walked out of the interview, I took an action against him.

I found his head of the department on Linkedin and encountered the horrors to
him in detail.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-ce3ae98949d24981f84ea96a6639ee69)

Image source: My LinkedIn Messages

The head of the department replied, “Sorry to hear that. Will connect with you
shortly.” And never connected back on this. Clearly, there was a reason he was
the head of this shitty department.

 **The second position is held by a Karvy Analytics interview.**

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-c4e16242818001776e7028d8909e2b1d)

Image source: [Karvy Analytics - Python
Developer](http://durgajobs.com/KarvyAnalytics-Hiring-
PythonDeveloper-2018-Hyderabad.html)

I walked out of this interview because I had a newfound realisation that I
don’t want this job anymore. Not just the job, I realised that I don’t want to
work in the domain I was working in. The interview acted as a catalyst for me
to find my purpose.

Three 20-year old data scientists were interviewing me at Karvy, when they
asked me to solve a math equation on a sheet of paper.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-783c79ebb54a326e04048c70c838eaa2)

I pushed the sheet back, saying, “I cannot solve it. I’m not this person.”

This statement, coming from my mouth, changed my life.

I did not care about any math equations. I did not care about writing codes.
And I didn’t care about impressing these kiddo data scientists. I got up from
the chair, and said, “Guys, clearly, this isn’t the job for me and I’m not the
person you are looking for. I think this interview is over.”

I headed to the door. The kids got up from their chairs. One of them said, “Do
you want this back?” asking me to take back my resume.

“No. I’ll make a new one. This isn’t right.” I said.

A sense of relief washed over me as I came out of the office building. Those
45 minutes spent in that small conference room changed my life. I felt free. A
freedom from a lie I could’ve lived, freedom in knowing that I don’t have to
do where my heart isn’t.

I’ve written about it in detail in this answer: [Anshul Agarwal's answer to
What is an incident that changed your life?](/What-is-an-incident-that-
changed-your-life/answer/Anshul-Agarwal)

 **The third position is held by an interview with a company whose name I
don’t remember.** It was a small company, in existence since last few years.
They boasted of a head office in America and a few in India. This was a
position based in Madhapur, Hyderabad.

Those were the initial days of my career. I was looking to change my first
job. There were two rounds of interviews which went alright, then I got
scheduled for the final round with the HR. The interview was going fine when
the HR lady asked, “Are you married?”

I was taken aback, couldn’t see why such a question was asked.

I asked, “I don’t understand. Why this question?”

HR replied, “No, I am just asking on an informal note. Are you married?”

The question was seething in my mind, so I asked, “How does it matter?”

HR replied, “If you are married, you won’t be able to devote enough time to
office.”

“So you want only unmarried girls?” I replied and walked out.


##########
Yes. One of the worst days of my life, I will never ever forget that day.

Just to give you little background, I am an Indian and I have been a failure
all throughout my life. I failed in 11th standard, then I had more than 50
backlogs in my Bachelors of Engineering (Information Technology), I completed
my Engineering in 6 and half years (which should take 4 years). I worked in
India for 2 years where all I did was cleaning the windows and door of the
instruments installed on Highways (No wonder. I won’t get a good job with the
marks like I had in my bachelors). Then I thought I will change it all. Like
every other morning I got up and said this is not the life I want and left the
job and planned to pursue Master’s degree. I applied 3 years continuously in
the decent colleges of India, Canada, United States, Singapore but no one gave
me admission. Everyone on Master’s degree forums, all the seniors said that
you should not do, student there are highly qualified, you will stand nowhere
but I didn’t listen to anyone. Meanwhile my girlfriend (who was already in US
and earning very good) left me breaking 6 years’ relationship and said to me,
“you will never be able to make it in life”, I broke again. Somehow I gathered
all my strength.

Finally, as always, I decided to give it a last try and it worked I got admit
from two US Universities and One Canadian College for Masters in Computer
Science.

Now comes the finance. I had a house as the only property with some value, my
father passed away in 2011 so there was no one to take loan for me. I decided
to take risk and sold the house to pursue my dream of being better and took
little loan because the money was not enough.

In my master’s degree, I was the lowest grade student in my batch but somehow
I passed on margins, I went through, I could believe that I am now a Master’s
degree holder in Computer Science.

My struggle didn’t end here. Now the biggest challenge was to get a job. I
always dreamt big in my life but never could achieve anything. Every day and
night, I worked hard so hard that no one can imagine. And I got the
opportunity, I was in the final round of a fortune 500 company. The dream was
about to be true.

There were 4 rounds on the final day of interview. I gave the first round and
it was average. Then came the second round.

Here is the scene.

 ** _Interviewer_** _: So, I am going to give a little background about our
project. So here we Blah.. Blah.. Blah.. Blah.. Blah.. Blah.. Blah.. Blah..
Blah._

 ** _I wasn’t listening to him because a little dot on the table had caught my
attention and I was busy staring that._**

 ** _Interviewer_** _: So Mr. XYZ . Is this something that interests you and
you would like to do?_

 ** _I said in loud voice , Yes, Definitely._**

 ** _Interviewer_** _: Really? so what is there that you found most
interesting about the project?_

 ** _Bowled, Boom_** _, I didn’t know what to answer. I lost the focus, my
hands started trembling and could not give the rest of the interview properly,
I was cursing myself. Then I got 30 minutes’ break in between the second and
third round._

I went to washroom, Slapped myself 10 times.. 20 times.. 1000 times cried
..cried loud punched the wall shouting “This is all what you wanted fuckerrr ,
you are good for nothing , you are waste, wake up wake up you bastard ”. I
cursed GOD and shouted “Why the fuck did you make me like this.”

I cried badly and sat on the toilet floor crying. It was my dream. I could not
handle myself. I am a fighter and fought throughout my life but this instance
broke me into pieces. I ran out of the interview and didn’t give any round.

After this day, I went back to my hotel room and drank one and half bottle of
whisky and puked all night and then drank on bottle of whisky before leaving
for my city.

Next day, as always, I got up brushed, wore formals, looked into the mirror
and gave a fake smile to myself and got ready for another fight.

Few weeks ago, I got to know that I have ADHD with learning disability and
with many other disabilities like weak memory and all. I was happy, sad and
proud. Happy because I found the answers to the question that I have been
asking GOD from past 28 years that why did he make me like the way I am. And
sad because I have to live with it all my life. Also, proud because I am a
Master’s in Computer Science before even knowing that ADHD exists. I refused
to take brain supplements but I do yoga and meditation. The improvement is
negligible.

I have a small job now as a Full stack developer, I get afraid every time I
get a new project thinking that I will not be able to do it.

Working in a big company, completing a big project, contributing in
conversation within the group of intellectuals and being skilled is like a
dream that will never come true. But my dreams never let me sleep or let me be
at rest, I don’t know, in how many interviews I have failed. It has now become
my habit and I am happy with it, I Love to fail.


##########
I played the bad slash jerk part in this story. I was interviewing this girl,
smart and confident, started her career around 3–4 years back.

The interview was going well and her over confidence was at times pissing me
off. As a part of the interview round she had to write a working piece of
code.

* * *

 _Little bit of side information -_ I belonged to this cult which is extremely
particular about code style such as indentation, tabs, variable names etc.

* * *

Seeing her over confidence I gave her a difficult problem and she started with
a right approach. But something was very wrong with her code, the coding style
was all messed up.

She completed the problem before the expected time, but I was not at all
impressed.

The conversation started

 **Me:** hmm! I see that you use spaces instead of tabs. Any particular
reason?

 **She:** yeah, that's how I generally code. Anyways, is the solution correct?

 **Me:** I don't know, the code is messy, no indentation. It's difficult to
read it.

 **She:** ok

Pressing Ctrl+shift+F

 **She:** here you go. Now the code is formatted.

 **Me:** But the names still doesn't make any sense.

 **She:** is that so important?

 **Me:** no, but it's generally a good habit to follow. All good programmers
are very conscious about it.

 **She:** I am a good programmer and I don't follow it. You might have started
programming with VIM, but nowadays IDE's have made these requirements
redundant.

 **Me:** look at some open source code. It's all very well written and not
like this.

 **She:** Just FYI I have also contributed to open source and I do follow
these standards. I don't have compulsion towards them so I skip them in
interviews.

 **Me:** Ok, that's fine…

 **She (interrupting):** can you please excuse me. I am getting late for my
lunch.

 _And she just left, in the middle of the interview._

* * *

I felt bad about her and myself too. I could have been more subtle.


##########
HCL Technologies Noida

Went for an interview in 2008 with valid appointment as it was not a walk-in.
They let us wait in sun till 11am (interview time given was 9:30 am and we
reached there at 9am). At 11, they took us to a room and took the CV. I told
the HR that I have taken half day leave from my current org and its getting
late. Please arrange the interview asap.

Instead of replying it politely he became rude and told you need a job so you
have to wait for it ( in front so more than 20 ppl). It was one of the worse
behavior I have ever seen from any HR personnel. I still waited till 12 and
asked him again. He said my number will come only after 3pm. Looks like he was
delaying my interview deliberately.

I stood up and took my bag while he was looking to me. I told him please
return my CV back and I don’t want to waste my CV for such company who behaves
so badly with candidates. His face became white and he was in shock as no one
generally asks their CVs back. Some people were grinning seeing me asking CV.

He asked my name and took out the CV and handed me. I put that in my bag and
started going towards exit. He told you can be debarred from future interviews
in HCL and i told OK thank you.

His expression was PRICELESS!

Never gave an interview in HCL thereafter (not even telephonic) and hope will
never need to.


##########
Yes. It was for an MNC. I was a fresher in a new job and the profile in
question was quite different from my then current profile. Since those people
were okay with a fresher I thought of giving it a shot. I prepared as much as
I could.

On the day of interview I saw a lot of candidates who werent related to the
position at all.

The interview started and the first thing I noticed was the HR's face. She was
looking at me with such an attitude. Her brows were held high as if she owned
the company. She started asking me questions. And I answered them to my best.
I found her rolling her eyes and making faces whenever I was not answering
upto her expectations. I got very uncomfortable but then I thought it might be
some kind of a stress interview.

And then she started objecting my every answer without any reason. She started
giving her personal opinions on my career choice. And she was making faces as
if someone was making her eat shit. It was then that I understood that it
isn't a stress interview but the worst interview of my life. I lost all my
interest in the interview but kept my patience. She made some personal
comments on my behavior. She said I was very confused and didn't know where I
was going in my life. That thing offended me like anything and I had enough of
it by then.

“Can I please have my CV back”? I grabbed my CV and went out.


##########
