When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be sur...


##########
**_I wore a kurti to an interview_**

I am someone who loves to wear ethnic dresses. In my wardrobe If I have 10
apparels, 7 out of those will be kurti. I prefer wearing kurti to t-shirt and
I was really proud of it until these two incidents happened with me.

 **Dec'18:** I had gone for an interview in an e-commerce company which was
huge. Among 20 men who came for the interview, I was the only female. They had
clearly mentioned that we can wear casuals as well so I thought of wearing
kurta and leggings with a coat, neither too formal nor very casual, perfect I
felt.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-57facb3ed768ba65b1f3826fd3f46fc1)

There were stages of the interview in the organization and I qualified for
all. During the interview with the head of a department, we literally sat and
discussed for 45 mins. He was so impressed with me that he said: “I would love
to have you in my department”. We actually talked about books, novels,
donations, CSR and much more. After all my phases of the interview, I came out
of the office completely happy and satisfied with my interview.

I had a family friend in the organization and a week later he informed me that
people in the interview loved me and I will be in. I was all happy and dancing
around, however, the results were not announced. About three weeks later after
continuously calling them, they informed me that our manager feels that you
are not completely suitable for the organization and can apply after 6 months
again.

I was completely shattered as I dreamt of so many things. For weeks I had no
clue what to do now. My family friend called me and told me he had no clue how
this had happened as he had seen my review sheet. He suddenly asked me what I
wore for the interview. I told him kurti and he said ' you should have worn
jeans and a shirt, as people here think that girls who wear kurti are not very
fit for operations job'. I was speechless. I had no clue how my dress could
tell what I can do and what I can’t. I did not say anything but yes I was
happy that I didn't get selected in such an organization.

 **Feb'19:** I went to an organization (again in kurti) who had loved my blog
and my writing style so they called me for an interview. 5 mins into the
interview and this lady with colored hair said that she will inform me in 2–3
days if they would go ahead with my application. Also I forgot to mention
that, in the 5 mins of our conversation, she told me about the nature of work.

After 2 days I got a mail saying that they weren't going ahead with my
application. Well I have no idea on what basis I was rejected because I didn't
get a chance to even talk in the interview.

We Indians are so used to adopting the western culture that we have lost our
identity. We feel that a girl in a skimpy dress is smart but the one who is
clad in kurti is an aunty. I really want to talk to such people and understand
their psyche because it is clearly beyond my understanding. I love wearing
kurti but trust me I don't think I am any lesser than the girls walking around
in western dresses ** _._**

[The rat race... - Anadipahadi](https://anadipahadi.com/rat-race/)

Well, I think I have met a lot of hypocrites and love to share such stories.

Happy Reading

PS: Thank you all for liking my answer. I am not blaming or pointing fingers
that all MNCs are like that just sharing my experience. Also, I finally found
a great job which pays me more and respects me for who I am.


##########
**I fucked up my first interview with Tata Consultancy Services(TCS) because I
lied**

So I was doing my final year of my Bachelor and TCS is a giant company to get
into.

They came for “On-Campus Recruitment” drive. TCS announced that there will be
no test for Aptitude for students who already have a CGPA more than 7.5

Mine was 7.56 and hence I was also in the list of students to go for a direct
walk-in interview.

They announced that the Interview process will start by 10:00 on that day and
people from each department would be sent in alphabetical order.

My name starts with “A” and I was 4th guy in the list.

The clock hit 10:00 and three guys were sent inside as there were three
recruiters for our department to interview the students parallely.

I was waiting for the moment and in came the call for my name. I woke up high
on nerves and walked inside the room.

We had “Soft Skills” Training a month before this date to get ready for this
D-Day

I walk in, shake the hand with that guy and sit for the interview.

The interview started with “tell me about yourself” question and I started
talking like a garbage can getting unloaded at terrible speed

He then asked some questions about my final year project and also about some
symposium events I attended which I mentioned in my CV.

Then came the question,

 **He:** I see you are from “Electronics and Communication Engineering” ?

 **Me:** ( _With pride)_ Yes, Sir.

 **Him:** Then why you are interested in a company that is doing software as
its prime focus?

 **Me:** _(Taken a back a little)_ Well… I have done coding during the part of
my course… and I liked it… Thats why

( **_IT WAS A LIE_** _. At that point in my life, I hated coding and I lied to
get this job. To be equal with my peer. To just prove a point . To follow the
herd just like a sheep_ )

 **Him:** Okay then, Solve this problem with your coding skills

( He gave a complex puzzle and asked me to solve with a logic)

I struggled.

Felt embarrassed.

Saw him smirk seeing me suffer and it sank me even more

I tried to solve for some time. But my brain was frozen already.

 **Me:** ( _Looked up at him after 5 minutes_ ) I couldn't Sir.

 **Him:** No problem. Anyways, good luck and in the evening we will release a
list to notify whether you got selected or not.

I knew at that moment I was not selected, but checked later in the evening in
the website and as expected I didn't see my name.

I was one of the 5 students (in a classroom of 61) who didn't get selected on
that day and the only student from my class who didn't get selected with a
direct walk-in.

* * *

 **The Mistake I did ?**

I **lied** and I learnt a lesson that I must never do that.

I promised myself I will be honest in future and just say things as it is.

Not only in interviews, but also in real life situations.

I then got placed in the next interview. But didn't pursue that job as I
applied for Masters abroad and got admission

Did my Masters in Netherlands

Learnt to code during the course and started to love it

Finished Masters and now working happily as a Software Engineer.


##########
I graduated from University of Delhi back in 2017 . After my college,I was
looking for some better opportunities though I didn’t have a stellar profile
for applying to big companies but I didn’t give up. I believed in myself. For
the next two months,I took up **Linkedin** Premium & started looking for
better opportunities.I was already being used up of getting rejected from
Tier-1 companies but didn’t gave up.

This answer gonna be bit long & if my readers feel about not reading this
answer,you guys can skip :) .

I always wanted to work with management consulting firms.Now most of us get
it,what am I talking about? It’s holy **MBB** ( Mckinsey & Company , Bain &
Company & The Boston Consulting group ) .

It was late evening of August when I saw a notification popped in on my
Linkedin profile - “ Mckinsey & Company “ hiring for operations intern for
their new ventures . Without much expectations,I applied for the internship .
Now,if someone is not aware about this company, let me tell you that it is
world’s best management consulting firm & top 10 places to work according to
**Forbes**. Also,it pays you really well.

After a week,I got an e-mail from the HR . The picture is as follow :

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-eab35241ee79a36564bb3f32d2c7b72a)

I freaked out for a moment thinking, it’s fake . I called on the sender’s
personal number given on the e-mail & confirmed it. I was happy & nervous at
the same time because I was given a chance to be interviewed with one of the
best consulting firms so far.

The profile was operations intern & I figured out in the first place that they
gonna ask me about some complex operations case studies . I went through every
video of youtube on case studies & guesstimates . I practiced some of the
guesstimates on real Mckinsey cases & had an idea about what all type of
questions they can ask me . There were three rounds & every round was an
elimination round .

The first meeting was at 2:00 P.M & I reached their office at 1:00 P.M wearing
my black suit with black shoes. This is how I looked.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-25805286f0ae93ee63ef802238a7d5c1)

I entered their premises & got goosebumps seeing this -

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-d34663b41fcf88f1652e4d8fec4486a5)

The name says it all.

Let me explain you something about the interview process. It was divided into
three stages.

Round 1 : General introduction about yourself & why you want to opt for
operations industry in Mckinsey & Company

Round 2 : What all you did in college so far & tell us something relevant,you
might have did in college ranging from competition to winning a competition.

I won’t write anything about these two rounds because it would waste a lot of
time for my readers & I don’t want to bore my
[readers.So](http://readers.so),let’s get back to the final round.

Round 3 : Technical & problem solving skills ( Mainly guesstimates & case
studies round to check the candidate’s analytical & problem solving skills . )

I went to the last cabin where I was waiting for Global operation analyst. Her
name was Nidhi & she was taking my interview .

Suddenly,she came in .

 **Me :** Hello Nidhi,nice seeing you.

 **N :** Hello Shyan,How are you? I got your feedback from both the gentleman
& they were pretty satisfied with your interview. Make sure,you sail this
fine.

 **Me :** I will try my best,Nidhi. I am fine & nervous at the same time.

 **N ( with a smile ) :** Don’t be . Just feel relaxed .

So Shyan,Why do you want to be in operations management?

 **Me :** Operations management is the function that turns an organization’s
resources (materials, labor) into products and services. That’s why it is “the
main reason for existence for any organization.

For those in who work in manufacturing, understanding operations is important
because it’s the area where much of a company’s money is made or lost. For
those in service industries, it’s important to understand operations since it
is a key differentiating factor between companies in the same space. In the
case of banks or logistics companies, the value proposition they offer
consumers is often based on functions provided the operations department.

This is what I learnt during my college life & if we could combine these two
definition all together- It comes out to be **Client servicing** in layman’s
language .

Nidhi seems satisfied with my answer.

 **N :** Alright,so there would be two case studies -one would be general case
study & one would be operational case study. We just need your approach for
the both the case studies. We are not bothered about the outcome here .

Question 1 : How we gonna estimate the area of Delhi.

 **Me :** You talking about only Delhi or Delhi/NCR ?

 **N :** Only Delhi.

 **Me :** Thought for 30 seconds . I figured out at first place that if we
need to calculate an area of something,we need radius & then automatically we
can apply the formula “piR^2 to find the area but since we need to calculate
the area of Delhi,so we need to subtract something as well.

So,Let’s assume that the map of Delhi/NCR looks round & this is how google
maps work ..so I am not assuming incorrectly.

 **N :** Go ahead.

 **Me :** So,let’s take one end point of Delhi/NCR - “Jahangir Puri & let’s
take another end of Delhi/NCR - “ Huda city centre .

These two points are well connected with metro. So this is nothing but
basically a diameter.

Now,practically if I have to reach huda city centre from jahangirpuri,it
approximately takes 120 minutes .

& metro runs at the speed of roughly 70–80 Km/hr excluding all wear & tear
which I am assuming to be non-negligible at this moment.

Distance = Speed*Time .

We know the speed & we know the time ( Practically )

So we can calculate the distance .

but there’s a catch as we all know that Delhi ends at sultanpur ..so we need
to subtract the distance of sultanpur/huda from Jahangirpuri/Huda to get the
final distance from Jahangir/Sultanpur that’s where Delhi ends.

Now we know the diameter & D/2 = R .

Put it in a formula & get the estimation.

 **N ( smiling ) :** Well done,Shyan.

Let’s come to our final question & it is a real Mckinsey case study.

Pepsico wants to deport one of it’s plants to orlando from CA . It has a
limited bottleneck & they wants to take cost optimization in the figures.
Suggest a method of doing it in a way that saves Pepsico’s cost & man power .

 **Me :** No idea about what she spoke :P thinking for straight one minute .

So since it has a limited bottleneck & they wants to take cost optimization in
the figures ..so it would be feasable for them to take it part by part to
another city despite of taking it all at once & gaining some profits from them
& again using the share of profit to transport rest of their plant to that
particular city.

 **N ( Looking confused ) :** Don’t you think that it gonna affect their
employee’s ? Such companies don’t compromise with their employee’s. You’re
trying to shift a percentage of an employee to another city leaving their
previous project . You’re spliting them in groups & then you expect this
company to make some profits?

How they gonna make some profits?

 **Me ( Blank Face ) :** I understood that I lost the game but still didn’t
give up .

Mam,for instance if they deport their employee’s to another city ..they can
help the plant to grow & they will get opportunity to work .

 **N :** That’s not what such companies want. They are leaders of the world in
the field of FMCG & sales . Why they gonna split their employee’s at first.

Think rationally atleast & I am assuming you can’t

 **Me :** I am sorry mam.

I can’t reach to the conclusion.

 **N :** Shyan,it was simple. There was a catch in the question. You need to
work on your vocabulary.

Bottleneck means a glitch in the system. It is not a separate term . The
answer was simple but you confused yourself with some fancy methods.

Their employee’s will work together to find this glitch & then transporting
their plant bit by bit including all the raw materials & stuffs.
Ofcourse,there’s mathematical way to do it but I am assuming , you can’t
because you didn’t understand the question.

Thanks for your interview .

We will get back to you.

Verdict : Rejected.

 **What I have realized from this interview : These type of companies don’t
compromise with not even a single mistake & this is the reason for such
companies to be great. They pay you well but they expects a lot from you with
accuracy & precision.**

I lost my chance that day but this interview made me realize that I need to
learn a lot .

Will go one day again :)

Thanks for reading.

Peace.


##########
**_Warning! Long post ahead._**

This was my dream job.

Post of **_Management Trainee at McDonald's_** Mumbai corporate office, where
I would have been rotated between 4 different departments in a span of 1.5
years.

Hi, Myself **_Rishi Rishabh Jain,_** qualified to be a Chartered accountant,
cleared CA Final in November 17 and Ex-employee at EY, Mumbai and Ex-
Industrial Trainee at Unilever, Mumbai.

I was looking for a corporate job in Mumbai from Feb 18, after I cleared my CA
finals in Jan 18.

Now, coming back to my story, The vacancy was rolled out on their official
website for Management Trainee post and they asked me to send my CV on their
email i.e. [careers@mcdonalds.com](mailto:careers@mcdonalds.com) mentioning
**Application for Management Trainee** profile as Subject.

I applied for the same during Feb 18 and got their interview call during first
week of April 18. As I live in Textile city of India, Bhilwara Rajasthan so
they asked me to come down to Mumbai for an interview.

I was really excited for this job because of **attractive job profile** plus
their **brand name** and big companies do offer a **handsome package**. Plus
it was management trainee profile so, once I am posted as a regular employee,
the package shall be even Higher.

So, I went to Mumbai, wore white shirt, blue dotted tie, specs, clean shaved,
wrist watch, all suited up and like an ideal candidate wore a **Smile** on my
face. I could not afford to lose this opportunity, so I also brushed up my
technical knowledge and read few quick facts about the organisation and their
market share and their strategies and their future plans.

This is the most important thing while appearing for an interview. **First,**
you should know for what profile are you being interviewed for and what are
your job responsibilities and **second** , you should have a considerable
knowledge about the organisation, about its business, about its competitors,
about challenges it is facing, etc. ( _If you are from Finance or Management
Background_ ).

So, there was no HR round of interview, as I forgot to mention earlier, they
already had my **HR round on call** for around half an hour, when I was in
Rajasthan. **They were quite impressed from me,** maybe due to my profile or
maybe my confidence.

So, the first round was directly the **PI round** , where the immediate Hiring
manager, under whom I was supposed to be recruited, interviewed me. **** Now,
this guy was a CA, in his early 40’s and in this company since last 10 years
and was even from Ajmer, Rajasthan. Because, he was from industry, I knew I
could easily impress him with my technical knowledge.

The interview went for around 45–50 minutes where he asked in a structured
(maybe pre-decided) process, technical questions from every aspect of our CA
curriculum. From Company law to competition law, AS/Ind AS, Form 3CD Tax audit
report, CARO report, Auditing Standards, Income Tax, Assessment and appeals,
and few topics of Financial Management.

I would like to mention here that since I appeared for technical interviews at
all of the Big 4’s ( ** _where Technical round is much more rigourous)_** I
was excellent performer and confident enough and knew all of those answers.
During the Interview, I actually mentioned a point, where he himself admitted,
“ **Well, I don’t know that point, even I have to research.”**

Clearly, He was impressed with my technical as well as soft skills. He ended
the interview with the words, “ **HR will get back to you for further rounds
of Interview.”** This meant I am being taken further for next rounds of
Interview.

I came back to my lodge and waited for next 2 days. I still didn’t receive a
call from HR. I got nervous and thought maybe I have overplayed in the
interview and now my smartness will cost me the job.

In a hurry, I just called the HR to ask whether I am selected or not. She
bluntly said, “ **Rishabh, I have been trying to contact you from last 2 days.
You’re not picking up the call.”** Clearly, she lied. She didn’t call me once,
neither did she left a mail that she tried to contact me and I didn’t answer,
In case if she genuinely wanted to contact me. Nonetheless, **_me samajh gaya,
Yeh HR jhol hai, ye lafda karegi._**

I knew there’s no sense in arguing but I politely denied receiving any call
from her. She said that she will drop an email for the details of next round
of Interview which shall be the **_Presentation Round_** with the CFO of the
company. I waited for next 2 days, just to receive this mail.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-9e2da0c59b0c28a89d5059cd1ccee6be)

So, I waited for long 7 days with all hopes high just to read this kind of
mail, after performing so good. I was not ready to accept the defeat. I
decided to fight back. I wanted to call the HR to know whether they have
actually rejected me and if so what was the actual reason behind it. I even
thought I would ask her when can I come to the office to meet her in person.

So, amidst of all I called her (on her cellphone) to know the reasons for
rejection. **_Man I’m not good at handling rejections._** Also ** _,_** _I
might sound desparate but yes I wanted what I deserved. Simple._

She didn’t answer the call, as expected. I was sitting on **_Marine Drive_**
at that time. It was around 7:30 and the breeze was cool and the noise of
waves were heart-soothing. She called me back in 5 minutes and directly asked
me to complete the assessment. **_Wait what? What kind of assessment?_** I
thought it might be some kind of Feedback _about the interview process_. So, I
asked her what was that for? She said, “ _In order to further proceed this
interview, you have to complete this assessment. It is not an elimination
round, just an assessment to know you better.”_

 **Wait what? I am being taken for further round of interviews?**

So, I was completely confused and asked her about the above mail I received.
She said She don’t remember sending any such mail to me. Then she opened her
mailbox and said exactly what is written in this trail mail.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-96c383d8c7a5a1999e0a558ba0cf0a18)

 _I jumped up with joy. Yes, it's not over._

 _So I asked,_ ** _“Are we onn with the presenatation round?”._** She said,
“Definitely Yes. We are not going to loose such **_High Calibre Candidate_**
_.”_ And asked me to complete the assessment and prepare my Presentation.

I got 2 days to prepare for the presentation round, make presentation and
present it in front of CFO himself. I printed annual reports of last 3 years
and made very attractive ppt of 10 slides. Because 10 was the limit.

On the big day, I reached the place before time just to look confident and
after few minutes of decided time, I was called by the manager in the
presentation room. There was one Head HR manager sitting alongwith the HR
(that **_lafda)_** and the hiring manager. We attached my laptop with the
projector and waited for CFO to come.

Now, came the CFO, age around 60’s and in formal half shirt with trousers. I
was amused with his outfit. He made me comfortable with the situation and
asked me if I want something as he was having his cup of coffee. **His
humbleness and down to earth Attitude made me crave to join this company
more.**

(Sir, if you are reading this, you are great human being, I couldn't say it
that day.)

So, I started my presentation with confidence and some attention catching
comic punch. The presentation went on for 30 minutes (even though I was said
the max time limit is 20 minutes). They all were too much impressed with my
soft skills as well as my analysis part. At a point between the presentation,
the CFO signalled to the manger, with his finger pointing towards the ppt and
he uttered **_Waah! He wanted to say, wow what an analysis._** That was a
point where I researched hard and was actually a good observation point to be
analysed about the company.

He ended the presentation with extending his hand for a handshake and said ,
“Well done! We will get back to you!” **This was the point where I decided I
have to join this company, I have to work and learn under this person. Such an
amazing personality with so much humbleness.**

I knew I have to wait for long since the HR is lethargic and will delay my
appointment as much as possible. But, I was ready to wait for it.

Meanwhile, I got an appointment letter from EY and was asked to join next
Monday. I shifted my joining date to further next Monday just to buy some time
so as to wait for McD.

I waited for more than 2 weeks, but I didn't receive any call or mail. I
called her many times just to know the status of my application. She kept me
assuring that we will soon declare the result but the results are positive for
me, so I should wait.

They kept me waiting whole april and finally on 30th April, EY HR called me
for my final answer and if I am really interested in joining their firm or not
as I shifted my joining date thrice. So out of courtesy, I accepted their
offer and agreed to join on 7th may, because I was in doubt if actually Mcd is
going to recruit me or not. Since in doubt, I accepted the offer in hand.

I happily joined EY but there was an urge inside me that I am joining a
company which actually I don't want to join. However I joined EY and worked
really hard day and night to complete the audit.

 **Now, you will be wondering what mistake did I actually make?**

 **Actually, After** one month of joining EY, I received a call from HR of
McDonald's that if I am willing to join their company but in a different
department and under different manager. Now, I was frustrated from their sick
hiring process and I didn't wanted to go through the whole process once again.
So I asked her if it's ok that I have joined EY and will leave it in one
month's time. She said, “ _if you are ok with resigning from EY in one month
then we have no issues.”_

I asked whether I have to appear for technical and presentation round once
again? For which she said yes. Now this was my dream company, ideal place to
work, with decent job profile and attractive salary package. Also, I was fed
up of hectic work culture of EY, so I had two options

  1. First, to go through their entire interview process and then join an interesting job in my dream company.
  2. Second, Don't compromise with my self respect and deny the offer.

So, I went with the latter one and told her, “ ** _Rachel, I am not interested
in walking the same path once again and if you are willing to offer me a call
letter asap without interviewing, then only I am willing to join._** ”

And I cut the call. This, my friend this, was the biggest mistake of my life
relating to an interview. Maybe I shouldn't have said that, Maybe I shouldn't
have done that. I should have gone through the process but I made a decision
and I am sticking to it.

 ** _Self respect is greater than any other materialistic things in life._**

Next week, I again received a call from her that the vacancy is still open and
if I am willing to join? I had no answers.

 **End of story.**

 ** _Thanks for reading_**

 ** _Rishi Rishabh Jain_**

Please comment!

Your opinion is important to me.


##########
This incident happened to me during end of May.

My friend used to work at Flex, Chennai. He referred me through the referral
program and I applied to the post just one day prior to the end date.

I thought, I wont be even called for the interview but to my surprise, I got
the interview call through mail and I had to attend the interview the
following Saturday. Since, I was working in another company, my team leader
understood the situation and let me go for the interview.

I did very well in the first 3 phases of the interview and at the EOD, the HR
said we would be called for the final technical and HR interview the following
next week. I was really happy because the recruiters really liked my way of
answering to all their questions.

2–3 weeks passed and I didn’t get any call for the interview. I tried calling
them, drafting mails but still no response. I gave up (since its a large
company and might have forgotten my profile) and moved on with my current
work. Then after a month I got the final interview call from them and I felt
really happy and confident that I would definitely get the job.

On the day of interview, first round was technical and followed by HR round.
In the technical round I wasn’t asked a single technical question but I was
just asked to explain my final year project and the reason for why I chose it.
I answered all the questions and his final question was

Interviewer: Are you willing to work in night shifts?  
Me: I don’t think it’s possible because I have sinus and I can’t keep awake
for long time (I take sinus pills to reduce sneezing which leads me to sleep
and also my parents never allow me to work at night).  
Interviewer: I just asked you ‘yes or no’?  
I thought, if I say yes I’ll be put into night shifts. Later that I came to
know that its a rotational shift process.  
Me: No sir.

He asked me to leave the room and there was another candidate along with me
who said he agreed to night shifts too.

HR arrived and informed me that I did really great but my technical knowledge
is poor. That moment I realised, you should never be truthful 100% anywhere
and never listen to your parent’s suggestions before interviews. Being
diplomatic always helps you.

I still regret that moment in my life and will regret it forever in my life.


##########
From a pool campus placement.

Aptitude test - 10 am - paased

Group discussion - 2 pm - passed

Technical Interview round 1 - 5 pm - passed

Technical interview round 2 - 10 pm - passed

Final HR round - 10.30 pm

At this point they probably had very low number met from the campus and seemed
sure to give offers to ok/good candidates.

HR: tell me about yourself.

Me: name.. blah blah.. Degree.. College.. Family.. blah blah..

HR: Good. So tell me the most memorable day of your life.

Me: (Instantly) Not much really.

HR: (Now looking at me instead of paper in his hands) Really? Nothing?

Me: (Now thinking hard that no one asked me this sort of question before. I
had a kind of flashback of memeries but nothing seemed kind of interesting to
tell. Pretty average guy.) Not really.

HR: Hmm. Thats all from me, you can go.

As soon as came out out the room, friends made a lot of fun of me for screwing
up such a simple question. I also realised the stupid mistake and cursed
myself for not telling some lie that would’ve fitted more appropriately.

But this was useful and same kind of question was asked by another HR in other
campus. Whats the most interesting thing you've done recently? I was quick to
realise the old mistake and this time lied my a** off about this android
project I'm working on. He was happy and so was I after the offer!


##########
A piece of advice from me:

 **Never ever lie to the interviewer. Especially about reading novels as your
hobby.**

Reading novels has become the most common hobby these days when it comes to a
question asked in an interview. I don’t know why people lie about this. It
seems like the easiest and most justifiable hobby is reading novels so
everybody says it, even when they don’t.

This happened to one of my panel’s interviewee. No, I didn’t fuck up this
time. :P

There were 6 interviewees and 3 panelists sitting inside a meeting room where
they were having a small introduction between the panel and the candidates. It
started with me. I gave a basic introduction to myself and I ended. So, to set
the benchmark for everybody else, the HR asked me to tell some more things
about myself like hobby and interests etc. I told her. Well, I also told my
hobby as reading novels and playing table tennis. She was impressed by my
table tennis hobby but not by my reading novels. She then asked about the
genre of novels and writers I like.

Again a piece of advice:

 **Never say that your favorite writer is CHETAN BHAGAT. I repeat, never.**

I told her about some foreign writers and some best Indian writers who write
about inspirational stories and psychologically strong stories.

At this point in time, she was impressed. Now comes the actual content of this
answer.

After me, a girl started introducing herself.

After her basic introduction, she told her hobby as reading novels.

Now the HRs are bound by this habit of questioning around the hobby area to
see whether you are lying or not. This HR was also the same. She did.

 **HR:** So what type of novels do you basically read?

That girl, the interviewee, fucked up here.

 **She:** Ma’am, I like to read romantic novels.

 **HR:** And writer?

 **She:** Chetan Bhagat.

 **HR:** Okay. Can you tell some novels that you have read recently?

 **She:** Yes ma’am. Half Girlfriend.

 **HR:** But there’s a movie on it? How can I believe that you’ve read it?
Tell me some other novel that you’ve ever read on which movie has not been
made?

 **She:** No ma’am. It’s not like it. I basically first watch the movie then I
read novels.

I was sitting next to her. (I giggled, She tittered.) It was really funny.
Suddenly everybody on the panel started to laugh.

 **HR:** Whaaaaaat? Seriously?

This round was not even the elimination round, yet HR asked her to leave for
the day.

 **To save the day, please don’t mess up with something that you don’t do.**

 _Peace._


##########
Going into the interview dressed as a woman.

I’d been unemployed for about 4 months and the day I would run out of liquid
assets was swiftly approaching. I desperately needed a job; unemployment does
NOT pay the bills.

I’m a mature transgender woman and had agonized over whether to present myself
in the gender expression I prefer or to, once again, present as male; an
expression I truly abhor.

I had researched the company and was confident their policy toward diversity
would cover me but hadn’t taken into account the possibility of individual
bias. I arrived wearing my hair down and lightly styled, a pair of relatively
loose womens Dickies, a toned down blouse, conservative flats, very light
makeup and little jewelry. The woman at the Service Desk, with nary a blink at
my presentation, directed me to the back of the store where interviews were
held. Being the punctual person I am, I’d arrived right on time but the hiring
manager was not in her office and wouldn’t return for another 15 minutes. That
was enough time for me to begin questioning my choice of attire, especially
since the other applicants in the waiting room kept stealing glances in my
direction and, in the case of a pair of young men, whispering, nodding in my
direction, and chuckling.

As I was closest to the door, I was the first person the HR manager saw when
she entered. I have become very good at reading people after more years in
retail than I care to admit, but it took none of that skill to see the
distaste on her face when she caught sight of me. She expressed her apologies
for being late and said she’d call us in according to our arrival time; we’d
been asked to sign a log as we arrived.

The company was going through a large hiring push and the waiting room filled
with people to the point where new arrivals were asked to wait in the hall.
One by one, the applicants dwindled and I noticed people that had arrived
after me were being called before me. The situation did nothing to calm my
inner turmoil.

I wasn’t the last one called, but I definitely had the shortest interview.
When I entered her office I saw a sheaf of papers entitled Hire the Best on
her desk. The interviewer removed her company apron and slathered her arms
with lotion as she asked the first question: Do you have any experience in
retail? I quickly summarized my experience and she asked the second question:
Do you know anything about lumber? I told her of my extensive knowledge
regarding home improvement and detailed the help I’d given friends with their
own projects. She thanked me for my time and told me she’d be in touch.

A week passed without contact, so I called. “You were supposed to call the
Monday after your interview. We have chosen another applicant for the
position,” she said and all but hung up the phone.

I still needed a job and reapplied on the company website a month later for a
different position at a different location. I received another phone
interview, passed it (again) and was given an appointment for a face-to-face
interview … at the same store as before … with the same woman.

This time, having failed miserably at my former attempt, I chose to present as
male. The two interviews were so different that, even to this day, I’m still
surprised. The HR manager greeted me with a smile and handshake, did not
remove her company apron, picked up the hiring packet and asked very different
questions. I’m pretty good at handling curve balls but was completely stumped
when asked what I would do to save a sale when a potential customer told me
she wasn’t going to buy anything after I’d spent half an hour going over her
project. Since closing a sale is so important, I felt I’d bombed in the worst
way. Imagine my surprise when the manager asked if I had the time to wait for
a second interview with one of the store’s assistant managers. He hired me on
the spot and directed me back to HR to sign the consent forms for the drug
test and background check.

Entering her office, I found her with my hiring packet in hand and a disturbed
look on her face. “I interviewed you once before, didn’t I?” I just smiled,
nodded, and sat down as she received a phone call from the assistant manager.
At the end of the call, she wordlessly handed me the consent forms. From that
day until the day I transferred out, she and I had an extremely contentious
relationship that only got worse when I was promoted to her level as a
department supervisor.

I’ve since come out completely as transgender and enjoy the acceptance of my
coworkers. The company is, after all, inclusive and goes out of its way to
embrace diversity.


##########
So it was campus placement season in our college. I was already placed in an
IT services company during my first semester. One major core company visits
our college during the second part of the year.

I was not at all interested in that company as i always wanted to go into a
consultancy firm. Unfortunately that didn't happen.

I woke up one fine morning just to realise that today was another placement
day. My mom wanted me to give it a try as it was one of the best companies
that visits our college.

It was already 10:00AM and the interview was scheduled at 10:30AM. I got ready
and searched for my resume( **which was xeroxed 2 times earlier :p).** I went
to the Xerox shop in our college and took two more copies of it.

I reached the venue just in time. The auditorium was filled with more than 80
students. It was a pool campus placement. I could see Everyone glued to their
study materials preparing for the interview.

As I entered the auditorium, I heard a placement representative Calling out-
**“ vaishnavi gadde, next”.** I was like….. **what!?**

I was mentally prepared that I was going to be rejected, as i didn't prepare
anything for the interview. All my concepts about my 30 odd subjects appeared
like a blurred vision to me.

I entered the interview room and saw two young interviewers sitting.

Me - **Good morning sir.**

Interviewer 1- **Good morning vaishnavi! Please have a seat.**

I sat and handed over my resume to them.

Interviewer 2- **so vaishnavi ! Tell me about yourself.**

The same age old question. I told them. It was by hearted to me after so many
interviews.

Interviewer 1- **okay that's nice.**

Interviewer 2- **vaishnavi why is your resume like this….with a lot of black
spots on it.**

As I had taken the Xerox of my resume for the third or fourth time I guess, it
had some black spots on it which is obvious. I started feeling embarrassed a
bit which is also quite obvious.

Me- **ahh….actually….umm…i was getting late for the interview so I took a
Xerox if it instead of the printout.**

Interviewer 2-( with an awkward smile) **thats okay I suppose.**

Interviewer 1- **so why do you want to join our company?**

I told them that it's our core company and…blah blah blah.

Interviewer 1- **okay good….you have quite a bit of knowledge about our
company.**

Interviewer 2- **so are you placed in any other company right now?**

Before the whole placement scenario we were told by our placement officer not
to reveal any details about our previous placements.

Me- **No sir.**

Interviewer 1- **you didn't appear or you didn't get selected?**

Me- **Ahh….i didn't appear.**

Interviewer 1- **May I know the reason why?**

Me- ( with a heavy voice) **umm.. actually I am not interested in consultancy
and IT companies and most of the companies that visit our campus are based on
consulting and IT sector.**

Consulting was the only thing that I ever dreamt of. I thought to my self that
it's going bad….. someone please come and take me !

Interviewer 2- **pardon me….but vaishnavi you just told us that you took a
Xerox of your resume. Then for what did you use the earlier copy for? You just
told us that you are not placed in any company right?**

It was like a nightmare for me. Never had I ever thought that I would face
such an embarrassing moment ever in my life. I knew my lie was caught and
didn't want to prolong it any further.

After a long long pause

Me- **ahhh…did I?**

The interviewers started laughing. I was staring at them with the most fake
smile I could put on.

The rest of the process went smooth. I answerd all the questions they asked
quite confidently and **unconsciously** ( as i was thinking about what had
just happened to me a while ago).

Soon results were announced….and I was not selected. I didn't even think what
went wrong…as I never ever want to rewind that moment. And it didn't even
bother me much as I was honestly not interested in that.

PS- coming to your question…

Always take a printout of your resume no matter what! Don't make the same
mistake that I made.


##########
