Hi JAVA is a ocean, so as you have going to shown 2+ years of experience you
must have knowledge how to sailing in the ocean, i mean i want to say you have
to perfect knowledge,

  1.  **Core java :** You have must have deep knowledge on String class, Collections Framework, Oops, exception handling, multithreading, Logical thinking, **(You are going to asked 50% of the questions from Core java only)**
  2.  **Advance Java:** Concepts of servlet, Jsp (Basics), life cycles, overal ideas, ( **15% questions)**
  3.  **FrameWork :** Spring(Dependency _njection,_ AOP.JDBC,MVC) is must, hibernate included more advantage, if you know webservises then super **.(25% question )**
  4.  **Project Manager round:** which domain you are working, who is you client, which part you have developed in the project, which Appserver you are using and version, Describe your role in project. **(10% questions)**


##########
Should I assume that your experience of 2 years is outside Java? If so, what
technology? Are you attending a Java developer interview with experience
outside Java?

2 years is not insignificant. If you are attending Java interview as a
‘nervous’ java programmer (whose experience is not in-depth), you can prepare
well and face the challenge. If you are attending Java interview as a non-Java
programmer, be prepared to lose out to some extent - since you will be
considered almost or a shade better than the fresher for the new job.

Either way, preparing for Java in the internet world is very easy. The
previous answers have listed several interesting and useful sites. Also in any
book shop you may pick up books on Java (towards interview rather than towards
learning Java programming). Also there are mock tests - most free and some
paid - available in the internet. Do a google on _mock tests in Java_

Since you have two years of experience, make sure that you would be able to
explain about the projects you worked on, your role in them, the development
process you adopted, how you tested the code etc.

Looking back your question was ‘how’ - and the simple answer is: by enough
practice!

Best wishes.


##########
**Short answer:** Yes, there is an API marketplace called
[RapidAPI](http://rapidapi.com/?utm_campaign=Quora&utm_medium=link_Marketplace&utm_source=Quora),
which combines both RapidAPI and the Mashape API Marketplace into the world’s
largest API marketplace! ** _[disclaimer: I work for RapidAPI]_**

  

 **Long answer:** Yes, you should check out the
[RapidAPI](http://rapidapi.com/?utm_campaign=Quora&utm_medium=link_Marketplace&utm_source=Quora).
RapidAPI is an online API marketpl...


##########
Make sure that you understand all Java concepts not just theoretically but
with coding practice too. Once you know all the fundamentals, Refresh and
evaluate your knowledge by going through the questions asked in respective
companies and evaluation tests. These links might help in your preparation -

Interview Questions - [Advance & Core Java Interview Question and
Answers](https://javasearch.buggybread.com/InterviewQuestions/questionSearch.php?keyword=&searchOption=label)

Online Practice Tests -
[https://javasearch.buggybread.co...](https://javasearch.buggybread.com/OnlineTest/javaTest.php)

Here is the list of Java Books - Tutorials , Questions that you can look into

[Best of Java - -
Book](https://javasearch.buggybread.com/BestOfJava/bestOfJava.php?categoryId=2)

Here is the list of Websites - Tutorials , Courses , Questions , Test , Blogs

[Best of Java - -
Website](https://javasearch.buggybread.com/BestOfJava/bestOfJava.php?categoryId=3)


##########
You can go through various interview questions by searching like Top/most 100
Java interview questions and it would surely help you out in interviews but I
would suggest to implement and work on basic programming questions as well
related to : (A)Wrapper classes like String,Integer , (b)
Comparable/Comparator implementations and (c)Collections usage . Also work on
Database end like Oracle SQL/ MySQL queries. The most important thing is you
should be clear of these concepts as clearing an interview is not big deal,
you have to implement and work in the projects too.


##########
