I actually asked this question a few times when I hired people - but also been
actually asked it once.  
He actually first asked me “why should I hire you ?” and I answered with my
strengths… and then he surprised me and asked me the opposite… “why should I
NOT hire you ? “…

I remember I was totally puzzled by it for a few seconds - not sure whether he
is joking or not… then I was thinking perhaps it is a trick question… how do I
answer it.

When I saw he is actually waiting for a serious answer - I had millions of
thoughts running in my brain… within a friction of a second… not sure how to
answer it… should I be “fake” and just mention bad qualities that are actually
good one… “ye, everyone say I’m too perfectionist… “ …bla bla… but then I
decided to just be honest.

Honesty has always been good to me… so I thought why not ?

So this is what I replied - I actually mentioned 3 reasons that previous
managers had complained about me - even one that got me fired .  
And I explained that I am AWARE of those fault qualities in me - and I am
doing my best to correct them and make sure it’s not going to happen again.

I mean , those were not major issues… one of them was being late a lot - and
that actually got me fired once ,so I know it’s a bad thing - and I am going
to change my pattern of waking up and come earlier to work every day. Rather
be early than late.

Another reason that people actually complained about me before was the fact I
talk on the phone a lot - during work hours , and that disturbed my team
members.

IS that a reason to NOT hire me ? I don’t know… but that’s was a reason I
almost got fired…

But again - I did mention I have a solution and that was to go outside the
office when I answer a call. Which doesn’t happen that frequently anyway.

Point is - **be honest - really mention reason why someone might not want to
hire you… but show you ARE aware of those faults and have a solution to deal
with them and fix it.**

 **I was hired for that job.  
** Not because I was honest or because I had a solution to it - but I think
it’s because I showed I am aware of those issues.

And that’s what I was looking for when I asked those questions in interviews I
conducted.  
Surprisingly… almost everyone were trying to flatter themselves by showing
good qualities as bad… and that did not show me they’re honest or aware of
their faults.  
NOT a good sign.  
There was one girl that actually was very honest and almost started crying
when she told me some reason she would not hire herself… and she stood up -
about to leave the room… thinking she blew it - I’d never hire her after that
- but I did.  
I told her - sit down - let’s discuss this. Let’s find solutions for those
faults of yours… and we did.  
It’s perfectly fine to not be perfect… but honesty is more important to me
than anything else , because I know I can change people ONCE they are AWARE of
their faults.

IF you’re not aware of it - if you don’t admit of it - you’d never fix it.


##########
This question is a curveball, designed to catch you off-guard. They wanna see
how you’ll react.

The interviewer can tell a lot about you—such as how genuine, adaptable, and
quick-witted you are—based on how you respond to questions such as this. But
don’t panic! It’s your chance to prove that you can think on your feet, even
when backed into a corner.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-c32fc94887ad1cef23e824060cac2eff)

The classic response is “My only weakness is that I work _too_ hard!” But it’s
thoroughly clichéd at this point.

In my opinion, the best way to respond to this is with a little humor, quickly
followed up by an objective assessment of one of your weaknesses. Just _one_
weakness. You don’t want to rattle off a long list of personality flaws.

 **Pick a weakness that is understandable, correctable, and relevant to the
work.** Additionally, I suggest going with one that could be seen as a
strength or valuable asset, in the right context.

The way you describe your weakness should bespeak intelligence, self-
awareness, and a moderate sense of shame (if you seem _proud_ of your
weakness, the whole thing backfires). Briefly explain what you’ve done or are
currently doing to overcome the weakness, and express a realistic
desire/intention/willingness to improve.

Last but not least, don’t forget to provide an example or two from your
experiences. **Be** **specific**!

Some personalized approaches for someone like myself:

  * ”Might sound a little cliche, but my greatest weakness is that I’m a perfectionist. Honestly—sometimes I just don’t know when to stop! But lately I’ve started recognizing when I’m obsessing too much over the details, and I’m already seeing a _big_ impact on my overall __ efficiency. For example…”
  * “That’s for me to know and for you to find out, haha! But seriously—if I have one weakness, it’s that I can get pretty sidetracked by my intense curiosity and thirst for knowledge. There are times when I just can’t rest until I feel like I understand something one hundred percent. The _upside_ is that I collect a lot of valuable information along the way! For example…”
  * “Tough question! Not gonna lie, I sometimes butt heads with my superiors—but _only_ when their thinking is too rigid to solve a particular problem and, on top of that, they’re antagonistic or dismissive of different points of view. If I happen to have a potentially game-changing idea, I can’t just keep it to myself—I have to share it! For example…”


##########
Back when I was giving an interview to a startup company, I had this as a last
question at the last round by the last person of the entire interview process.

 **Interviewer (I)** : Alright, everything looks good but got a last question
for you.

 **Me (M)** : Ok, let me try.

 **I** : Tell me a reason why I shouldn’t hire you?

 _(Never gave too much thought about this question but answered back
immediately.)_

 **M** : I do not have “a” reason but many. So, here we go.

  1. If you are looking for a guy who you expect to stretch beyond office hours everyday of a year, **do not hire me**. I don’t remain productive by working that way.
  2. If your work culture doesn’t accept “No” as an answer, again, I don’t make a good fit. **Do not hire me.**
  3. The job opportunity I have applied for involves lot of experimental approach, mistakes will be inevitable even after tons of experience. If mistake is looked as a sin, **don’t hire me** else I will end up playing safe games without any new approaches and substantial outputs.
  4. I believe vacation to be free from office works and that involves no phone call too from office during my personal time. If it ain’t respected, **do not hire me** , it doesn’t help either of us.

So, above were the 4 points I emphasized with confidence and these were my
primary conditions I laid out as my expectations before accepting the job
offer.

Interviewer had “that look” at me for a minute and I later figured out that he
was the CEO / Founder of that company. Anyway, I did not make it through may
be because of my last-round-ever-lasting answers.

Either way I was happy. If they rejected me that would mean the culture is not
what I would expected to be, if they had hired me that would mean the culture
would respect every employees personal space and provide a professional
environment which was what I was looking for.

Hope this helps. Good luck.

 _If you can respect above mentioned points and willing to offer a job,_ **
_Do hire me!_**


##########
Here's how to deal with it when it happens.

 **First of all, you need to understand what the Recruiter is hoping to
hear:** What your real weaknesses are.That you're self-aware enough to realize
that you do have weaknesses, and that you can be comfortable talking about
those weaknesses.That you've successfully overcome weaknesses in the past.That
you'll be able successfully overcome weaknesses if you get this job.

So, one way to answer this question is to talk about your past:  
 **Share a real weakness.** Don't talk about "working too hard" or "being a
perfectionist" unless these were genuine weaknesses for you.  
 **Talk about how you're working to overcome the weakness.** Share the
concrete steps you've taken (or are taking), and what you have learned through
the process. **Talk about how you used feedback from co-workers/superiors
during this process, if relevant.**  
 **Another way to answer this question is to talk about the future:Talk about
a knowledge or experience gap you will/might face if you got the job.** This
takes great courage, but it can often pay off! **Give concrete examples of how
plan to address this gap if you are hired.And consider sharing a past example
of how you got "up to speed" in a similar situation.**  
Good luck, and thanks for the A2A!


##########
![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-50a6a545b7ede195db41bfb2b9375fb9)

Me: “If you find an equally good or better candidate for alesser cost to the
company you should not hire me”

INT: “ So you accept that your are not the best choice ”

Me: “No, I am sure you are screening many candidates, if someone else is
equally good and is less expensive you probably should choose him/her. Just
like how I am looking for a change and I would choose the company which offers
me the best role and pay”

INT: “ So you are not serious about getting a job here, you are ok with any
company?”

Me: “ I am serious, just like how I am serious about the other prospects,
there is no need of exclusivity here. While you are screening candidates, I
would be screening companies. We both should eventually choose what best suits
us”

INT: “So if I offer you a job now would you accept it, you have a long notice
period of one month. What if before your joining you find a better offer”

Me: “ I would need couple days to think on your offer, I may have to evaluate
and decide whether accepting the offer is a good decision. However when I give
you my word officially, I give you my word. I am an ethical person and you can
be assured I won't back flip on my words.”

Me: “ I would like to add that, at this moment I feel very positive about the
company and the role, so I am more inclined towards joining here. However I
will confirm officially after due thought. ”

INT: “so you are not ready to immediately accept the offer”

Me: “ I would rather think well before giving you my word, because once I give
my word, I usually stick to it. Its better I think before taking a decision
than after”

INT: “ I have a candidate who is already in notice period, he would join next
week at a lesser pay. If we can negotiate on the pay, I will be very inclined
in giving you the offer right away”

Me: “As expressed earlier, if you have a candidate who is equally good, at a
lesser pay joining earlier than me, you must probably go with him. I am really
sorry that my expectation is not negotiable. I don't want to join and soon
regret that I could ve got a better pay. I am sure even you won't want an
employee who will join and soon start doubting if he is being paid less.”

I did get the offer


##########
