Being a engineer dosen’t mean that we are entiteled to do only technical
stuff.I’m also an engineer and i can totally understand the questions we
engineers have to face for doing any non technical thing.

The thing is to understand here is that we are not born engineers,doctors or
anything else that we become during our lives.There are so many factors(like
family pressure,financial situations,lack of knowledge and guidance) that
makes us do things that we have to do,although we like them or not.

But,as time passes we start to understand our potential in some field of work
in which we are not even qualified but deep down we know that we can do it.

So,my answer to you is being a engineer dosen’t stop you from doing things
like marketing or sales,we have the desired knowledge and willingness for
it,that is why we want to do it.I am also doing network marketing although i’m
a computer science engineer.

Best wishes!


##########
Hi friend,

Even I faced the same question in my all interviews. The answers I gave in
each interview was different.

I will tell you my story, that might help you with your doubt.

ABOUT ME:

I joined B.E Automobile Engineering with a full interest in the course but in
a wrong College (i don’t want to reveal college name). We were the first batch
of automobile engineering and we had no seniors to guide. Even the staffs were
new and 2–3 year elder then me.

Still I completed my 2 years with all my heart and soul put together. The
other 2 years pulled me down to a thought - WHAT NEXT?

My mind went for a tour, thinking of all the possible options that i have
after completing my B.E Automobile Engineering.

 **JOB, MS, ME, MBA etc.,**

The technical knowledge was not up to the required level because the interest
in engineering was also depleting.

After the completion of my degree i tried for jobs in my core sector but
unfortunately i didn’t get any.

I have a skill i.e., i can address any number of audience without no fear and
i like to communicate with people. That made me to think of a job profile -
MARKETING.

 **This was my answer !! :P**

 **PLACED**


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
I have been in the same boat as I too transitioned from a software development
role to IT Sales and Marketing, after a BE in IT.

If you have work experience, you can say that while working on the technical
issues, you were also exposed to the business aspect like client
meetings/calls for requirements gathering, business analysis, research etc.
This got you interested in understanding the customer and to figure out ways
to address a business need/problem. If possible, cite relevant examples,
events, meetings to corroborate your story. All this should point out to your
interest in marketing as a way to understanda customer's requirements and
sales as a planned way of actually reaching out to the customer. Finally say
that now you want to take a focused approach to understand the nuances of this
field which you want to make a career in.

If you are fresh out of college, maybe you can talk about some of the
projects/internships that you did and then tie it to the same point as above.

In case you are looking at sales and marketing in the same field as your
engineering background (it was in my case), you can talk about how your
technology background will make you better understand the customer and propose
better solutions to their requirements. This actually happened in my case as I
was able to connect better with my customers because of my very relevant
background. Also, I could understand and answer nearly all of their queries
upfront, rather than say 'I'll have to talk to my tech team for that before I
revert’. It always helped me score a lot of brownie points.

Whatever you do, just don't make the mistake of saying that you didn't like
technology and hence moving to Marketing and Sales. It sounds like taking
Commerce or Humanities in class 11th because you didn't like Maths/Science.
Show respect for your previous education/work and then say how it became a
vehicle for you to explore and understand the very basics of marketing and
sales. In case you are well versed with technology sales and marketing, you
can add that too to your answer.

Remember, more than a perfect answer, it is your conviction in what you are
saying that will win over the interviewer. (Of course the answer has to be on
the right track too).

Good luck for your interview!

Edit 1: I have answered the question assuming the move from software
engineering to sales and marketing. But it is equally applicable to someone
from a different stream, with a few changes.


##########
I was asked the same question when i joined sales after my B.Tech in Chemical
engineering.I had an offer from Capgemini , but the joining date was pending.
My answer was very honest but it stuck. I told them that when I was going for
engineering i was acquainted with very few career options and i took the best
shot that at the time , but over the time spent in college , interacting with
thousands of different people in fests , workshops , hostels , tea shops ,
somewhere i realised that I could talk to people build a rapport easily. Where
else would you get paid for it? .

The point was you must have had your own reasons to shift careers , so you’re
the best person to answer this in the most kickass way. Just tell them your
reason honestly. Trust me it works!

P.S - There was another guy who interviewed with me , his answer on the same
question was simple “because you pay more” . Both of us joined the same day.


##########
I belong to technical background but I am someone who doesn’t believe in
spending all his life in front of a computer screen playing with codes and
data. In fact I like exploring new places, meeting new people and enhancing my
over all personality. In short I am an extrovert kind of person. And that’s
why I feel marketing stream is more suitable than that of technical….And I
have strong feeling that I can do much better in marketing field when compared
to technical…


##########
There are many ways to answer this question however I would have answered
something like this

Sir, being from engineering background doesn't just give me an edge in
mathematics but also gives me some extra advantages like

In engineering everyday we come across problem statements which are not from
any books or website many a times we solve hypothetical questions on the spot
when asked in exams which is why when people see a scenario they look for
answers in the conventional way whereas an engineer will look at it from all
possible directions.

So in sales and marketing we as an engineer can not only solve problems whose
parameters are missing but we can also cater to questions which require
analytical thinking.

Moreover as mentioned earlier most engineers are good at math so a big chuck
of sales and marketing area is covered there as it requires predictions and
logical assumptions.

Ps.

We are known for our last minute out of the world solutions :p


##########
My father is a sales person who did his engineering in ECE from NIT. There are
a few things he has taught me over the years which could help you while
answering this question.

  1. When you understand how the product works, you can sell the product far more effectively. You can explain it to the customer in better layman terms and also point out nay fallacies in your competitors products. This can only be done because of your technical background.
  2. You could say, I am inherently creative and a people’s person. While I may have done engineering, deep down I have always felt like interacting with people, making proposals and convincing them . I can bring the right people focused approach to the technical side and help sell a product that doesn’t only get the job done but also does it without any effort from the customer.
  3. Engineers aim to optimize everything, they want to do get the best possible outcome by using least possible resources. They have an analytical mind which can translating to any marketing or a sales pitch.


##########
This question is a classic question for a recruiter to guage if you are really
interested in building a career in marketing. Truth be told, in most of the
cases, we are aware of what we don’t want to do, in this case, technical job,
but are not sure of what we want to do, in this case, marketing. And that’s
why most people would falter answering this question well.

Say you are an engineer, and you somehow don’t feel intrigued towards your
area of engineering and are looking to build your career in a non-tech field.
Why should someone hire you in a marketing/sales role when they have
applications from candidates in the marketing education background?

It is upon you to make them believe that you would do a good job in a
marketing role notwithstanding the lack of experience/knowledge in
marketing/sales. But how do you make them believe it?

For that, you must be really interested in marketing and sales and must have a
fair bit of knowledge about it. A recruiter would be more interested to know
what makes you interested in marketing than what makes you disinterested in
engineering. You must know what a marketing role entails and how you fit in
that role better than in a technical role.

For example, if you are appearing for a digital marketing interview, you must
be aware of the skills required for the role. e.g. one of the most critical
skills required in digital marketing in specific, and marketing in general is
analytical ability. If you could demonstrate how you have worked on analysing
things to draw inferences in your engineering program, it could make the
recruiter believe you.

But that’s bare minimum that the recruiter expects from you. It doesn’t
surprise the recruiter.

In recruitment, the candidates who surprise the recruiters by demonstrating
skills that the recruiter doesn’t expect them to possess make the cut more
often than not. This is where your homework in marketing and related domains
could come to rescue.

If you are appearing for marketing and sales interviews, you should be aware
of the basics of marketing, to say the least. For instance, if you could talk
of the marketing live projects you have worked on to create successful
campaigns for real brands, it would be difficult for a recruiter to not hire
you just because of your technical background.

Long story short, you must demonstrate skills in marketing and sales apart
from leadership and analytical skills to crack marketing and sales interviews
after engineering. To build these skills, you can follow marketing and sales
blogs like [afaqs.com](http://afaqs.com) for advertising, [HubSpot Blog
](https://blog.hubspot.com/)for digital marketing etc. Moreover, you should
pursue online certification programs in marketing meant for non-marketing
undergraduates like Kraftshala’s [Marketing Accelerator
Program](https://kraftshala.com/map/) to develop an in-depth understanding and
a practical exposure (through projects) of what a marketing profile entails
and how you can champion it.

Having this knowledge under your belt with an attitude to work hard and learn,
I believe a recruiter wouldn’t have a choice of not hiring you. All the best!

P.S.: I work at [Kraftshala ](https://kraftshala.com/)and that provides me
with a bias as well as an insider view of the marketing and sales job market.


##########
