I love the question! As a pro resume writer, I’d also love to answer your
question by telling you that you need to get _down to basics_ to win
interviews _…_ but I assume that’s not why you’re asking the question.

Some secret sauce/hacks I’ve used most often in the last year:

  *  **Keywords** ( _most useful one_ ) closely match the language listed on the job posting. Pay attention mostly to position title, hard skills, requirements, key verbs/phrasing, locations, nouns common to the positions, and even employer names. But DO NOT be deceitful. You will get the interview, but end up wasting everyone’s time when you don’t get the offer because they find out you were fraudulent.
  *  **Upload your resume to a job site as a Word doc** as opposed to a PDF. Hotly debated, but you are at least a few percentage points more likely to properly screen for the keywords you used by ATS software.
  *  **Add your LinkedIn URL to your header**. Tired of seeing “references available upon request” on resumes? So was I. But you know where else you can show off your references to an inquisitive recruiter? On the recommendations section of your LinkedIn page… which is now listed as a blue logo  & shiny URL hyperlinked on your resume.
  *  **Be personable.** At the end of the day, the company is hiring a human. Show off your human-ness and don’t be a robot like this one

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-dcc550cb7edc7b3013733b2662f2e560)

Even ginormous and serious consulting companies like Deloitte want to know
just as much about your ability to “fit in” as much as say a company like
Buzzfeed does. By “fit”, I don’t mean “how fun are you on a scale of 1–10”… I
mean like how likely are you to be motivated and dedicated to the company
culture **every single day.** After all, U.S. companies alone spend billions
each year on employee turnover when workers don’t fit their roles or company
and leave. Robots don’t currently do well as full-time employees just yet.

(Your resume, while I advise should be **mostly conventional** , is at the end
of the day, just a piece of human marketing. Don’t be afraid to take
calculated risks and be different!)

Reach out to me for more tips… This was the only secret sauce I could think of
applying to the general public— but I could brainstorm tons like I do for my
clients depending on their industry/level of experience/hundreds of other
variables.

Here’s to progress!

-Chris

P.S. Super grateful for all the positive responses on this. Here’s some more
[resume advice](http://www.letseatgrandma.com/blog) on our blog if you want
more sauce (LinkedIn and other stuff included).


##########
No, there is no secret or trick or hack or anything else that will always lead
to getting an interview.

The first and most important element of getting an interview is that your
resume should show a job objective that quite specifically matches the job
posting.

But that does not mean writing a revised resume for each job, where you list
your job objective as being exactly the same (or nearly so) as the job
opening. That kind of phoniness is immediately evident to a reviewer, and will
cause your resume to be discarded.

Your prior job experience also has to be closely matched with the job opening.
Either you must have held the same, or very similar, job(s) elsewhere, or the
jobs you have held must be the logical predecessor positions. Hence, you would
readily be seen as applying for an advancement.

That’s why you can’t just hoke up your job objective, to make it seem like
this particular posting is exactly the job you have been dreaming about. You
would need some explanation as to why you would want to shift from one type of
work to another.

So let’s get past the childish trick of trying to engineer your resume to look
like the perfect match for a particular job opening. The phoniness is all too
transparent, and just gets your resume thrown out.

Assuming that your job objective and your work experience are appropriate to
the job opening, what gets one an invitation for an interview are (a) your
actual accomplishments in prior jobs and (b) a distinguished academic record.

Accomplishments which led to interviews must be something measurable — 15%
sales gains, costs reduced by 20%, projects completed 3 months ahead of
schedule, and the like. Just “participated in” or “assigned to” or “team
member” is not impressive. Nor is listing some grandiose range of duties,
unless it is something like “Regional Manager, with full sales and development
responsibility, sales force of 15, annual volume $3 million”, etc.

You have to show your educational attainments. If all you can show is BS or BA
in something, from some ordinary college, no one will be too excited to
interview you. Recruiters are looking for a degree with honors, a high GPA,
some scholastic awards, a high class ranking, published research, co-authored
articles, and the like.

Need I mention that your resume has to be scrupulously honest and accurate? It
won’t do you any good to claim BA cum laude, 3.92 GPA if that is not what you
actually earned. Yes, recruiters do check those things. And HR departments
check them, for new hires. Anything that is misstated will get you turned
down, or fired, when it is discovered.

That goes also for your prior experience. While employers do not disclose
details about former employee work records, they certainly will verify or deny
whether you were a Regional Manager, and very often will confirm or deny
specific claims.

So to repeat, there is no “secret trick” to get interviews. You need to have
actual skills and history which are relevant to the job opening, and you need
a distinguished academic record. A resume which shows an ordinary person, or
someone whose background has only limited relevance to the job opening, will
simply be ignored.

And you can't fake it, by adding words of self-praise or boasting.
“Outstnding” or “Dynamic” or “Self-starting” or “Team leader” are only read as
code words for “I don’t have anything special to show, but I like to think I’m
terrific”. Such flowery language is an immediate turn-off for recruiters and
interviewers, no matter how much you may have paid the person who wrote that
resume for you.

Now, this is distressing to people who have ordinary educational records and
routine work records — nothing bad, but nothing exceptional. Don’t despair.
Ordinary people also get hired, and there are jobs around for everybody.
Particularly at the present time, with unemployment nationally below 4%.

It’s just that ordinary people, with ordinary records, are not going to get
interview invitations for every job opening where they submit a resume. It
takes much more effort to get hired, than for those who exerted extra effort
way back in college, to shine as a top student. And those who expended extra
effort in their earlier jobs, to produce distinguished results and stellar
performance.

Prepare your resume in an honest, acdurate, and straightforward way. Then you
must persevere, applying for jobs which are appropriate to your background,
achievements, and experience.


##########
I did something similar to [Luca Petty](/profile/Luca-Petty)’s answer, but my
experience wasn’t out of choice, but rather out of necessity, and I worked 10
- 12 hours a day for about 6 months, not 30 days.

 _I’ve worked for multiple agencies in senior roles in my career, and I won’t
be clarifying which agency I’..._


##########
Oh my Richard! Fantastic and loaded question all in one! :)

As a professional resume writer, if I told you all my secrets of resume
writing: I would love to tell you, but then, of course, I'd have to kill you.
haha JK.

 **Resumes honestly don’t have a single secret formula for success.** Every
client is different and every resume needs to project something different.
Same is true industry to industry. :)

 ** _As far as format goes_** , stick with an executive resume format. It
looks the best plus it is clean and makes ATS scanners happy and recruiters
LOVE it. And no, I don’t care if you are not a c-level executive- and this is
your first real job- use that format- you will GET NOTICED. Trust me!

 ** _As for content_** , this is the pretty crucial bit. You need to play to
exactly what the company is looking for in a candidate. Utilize words from the
job description requirements as a special hint! ;) ;) ;)

Make sure your resume shows you as a professional yet personable at the same
time. Give it a bit of flair in font, to stand out- show that you are not
afraid of being a risk taker or leader.

 **My number one piece of advice** \- for a resume secret sauce- don’t use
builders or online companies. Choose a professional resume writer to ensure
your resume gets noticed and you get interviews! They don’t call us PROS for
nothin’! :)

If you have any other questions, I am more than happy to help. **Connect with
me on**[ **LinkedIn**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amandagoodall)

Amanda, The Job Chick


##########
After 21+ years of working with senior executives, managers and professionals
to help them develop their resumes and engaging with executive search
consultants, recruitment consultants and hiring managers to find out what they
want, need and expect in resumes, I have devised a resume checklist.

I know that the resumes I develop for clients hit the mark because senior
executives in some of the world’s leading executive search firms have told me
that the resumes I produce are the best that they have seen.

1\. Are your achievements / contributions / accomplishments expressed in terms
of the tangible benefits and value you have added to your employers?’

2\. Does your resume demonstrate that you are able to overcome significant
challenges?

3\. Have you indicated _how_ you achieved / accomplished what you did?

4\. Are your key strengths / areas of expertise / abilities obvious and
demonstrable?

5\. Are your strengths / areas of expertise linked to your achievements and
accountabilities?

6\. Does your resume encourage the reader to read the rest of it after they've
read the first half page or so?

7\. Does your resume explain what you do / the value you add beyond your job
description or a list of your duties?

8\. Is your resume logically structured, organised and laid out?

9\. Is your resume visually appealing and distinctive?

10\. Is the language you use in your resume simple, straightforward and easy
to understand on first read?

Assess your resume against these 10 essential ‘ingredients’ of the ‘secret
sauce’.

However, to maintain the cooking analogy, knowing the ingredients comprising a
dish doesn’t make you a Michelin Star calibre chef. You have to know how to
combine the ingredients in a certain way and you have to be highly skilled in
the various cooking methods, techniques and processes to produce a dish that
your customers will rave about. This takes years of practising the right
techniques and methods and an comprehensive understanding of the nuances and
subtleties of the processes used to create an exceptional dish.

Below is are images of dishes prepared by three Michelin Star chef Heston
Blumenthal:

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-55d56a65df2496e80034c359c7faccfe)

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-21a2c8584fecdef007af5f0648ad4bfd)

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-921376473e34a3049a5d631b5442b2f3)

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-cda6e94787a73ceead8bd77d4aa101f8)

The last image is of a dish called “Counting Sheep”, for which there are 59
ingredients. But you can’t produce it just by knowing what the ingredients
are. It takes years of experience and training to master the necessary skills,
understanding.

There are very, very few chefs who can produce dishes of the level of
sophistication and excellence represented in the above images.

What I am suggesting is that producing a resume that will optimise your
chances of being invited to interviews is not something that people should
attempt to do themselves. Many people make the mistake of not investing in
their careers and trying to save money because they think they can do it
themselves. This ends up costing them time and a lot of money because it
extends their job search or they have to accept roles that don’t pay what they
are worth or they end up in companies in which they don’t really want to work.

Probably more important is that it can be soul destroying to be continually
rejected when you know that you have what it takes to do the job.


##########
It’s not very complicated.

Put yourself in the shoes of the interviewer. You want to meet people that can
fulfill your requirements.

Take care of the basics.

Well presented, organized resumes are the one that will come withstand the
giggle test.

Beyond that if you want to call it a secret sauce, see if your resume matches
the requirement as much as possible. Say in a technical resume, if the
recruiter can match the industry, background, tools used, technologies needed,
experience required, then you will come to the top.

If there are too many similar resumes that match the requirement, then a
referral from someone working there will help. Again the rank of the referral
is another factor.

Sometimes, it’s sheer luck.

Hope this helps.


##########
