  * **Communication Skills** : Both written and verbal that influence the interpersonal collaboration.
  *  **Flexibility & Adaptability**: Whether you are capable of accepting changes or not, and adjusting to the situation.
  *  **Initiative and Drive** : Whether you are courageous enough to take an initiative.
  *  **Management Skills:** Whether you can address and organize a team. Whether you are capable enough of commanding respect and inspiring others.
  *  **Problem-Solving Skills** : You are expected to do your own brainstorming and come with new and effective solutions.
  *  **Teamwork Skills** :Collaborating and co-coordinating skills while working
  *  **Technical Skills** : Knowledge of technologies and trends. At the same time you must have learning ability to facilitate new technological applications adopted by the company.

Apart from these, Presence of mind is very important. Let me share my mother's
incident during an interview happened in her late 20’s.

Interviewer - I ; My Mom-M

 **I :** So Miss M , I'm impressed with your academic grades [ My mom, she's
studious and unfortunately I'm not ;-) ]. I've one question for you , impress
me with your answer too . If you failed doing so, I'll turn your resumè into
two parts with my new parker fountain pen. So are you ready?

 **M :** Yes sir..! (With a confusion)

 **I :** One morning you woke up and noticed that you were pregnant. What
would you do then?

As my mom is way too sensitive, I expected tears as the answer from her. But
surprisingly, she answered with a cool voice as…,

 **M :** I would happily share this news with my husband gifting him a new
parker fountain pen.

I was really surprised by her answer and the interviewer got impressed!

 ** _Result :_** SELECTED!!!

Proud of you Mom! Love you!


##########
When you visit a website, you are of course observable by the site itself, but
you are also observable by third-party trackers that the site embeds in its
code. You might be surprised to learn that the vast majority of websites
include many of these third-party trackers. Websites includ...


##########
Cheers!

Hello everyone!Well,This is a very good question when an interview call
approaches us or we are preparing for any interview.Well,interview selection
result gives you two things-organisation and Post you have applied for.

1)So it’s very important to know about the company itself and minute details
about the Post you have applied for.Therefore for which most of the companies
on on-campus deliver a presentation which covers these things very well.But
for off-campus you have to study it yourself.

2)Now each and every Post has some of the mandatory basic fundamentals of that
field.For eg:Post of software developer requires proficiency in Data
Structures and Algorithms.Similarly while applying for HR ,you should be
skilled in such field.

3)Communication Skills are really must. It increases your selection chance by
30–40%.I ll give you a scene ,you will really realise the importance of
it.Suppose an interviewer asks you one question and both a person good in
communication skills as well as a person who is not good in communication
skills do not know the answer of that question.Now,think wisely who can handle
the situation well.

4)Be prepared for HR round.Questions like What is your strength and
weakness?What are your hobbies?What did you do in your internship (if any)?You
should prepare these very well.

5)Now delivering a very good introduction is very important.First impression
is the last impression.

6)Always keep your moral high and have lots of confidence.Interviewers look
for confident and energetic people.

7)Build a very strong and powerful resume. Keep it updated .Keep it short
,simple and powerful.

All the very best!

Thankyou


##########
**You’ve crossed the milestone of resume scanning and now you’re called for an
interview! Finally, it’s time for a face to face interaction.**

 ** _Once you’re all ready and geared up, here are 5 tips to giving an
impressive interview._**

  *  **Make eye contact, and begin with a strong handshake.**  
This will signal your confidence when you meet your interviewer for the first
time.

  *  **Be Prepared**  
Have an answer to "Tell me about yourself" ready to go.  
Interviewers always ask it, and you should certainly nail this first part of
the interview.

  *  **Stay Calm & Focused**  
During the job interview, try to relax and stay as calm as possible. Remember
that your body language says as much about you as your answers to the
questions.

  *  **Make Your Selling Points Clear.**  
Don't bury your selling points in long-winded stories. Instead, tell the
interviewer what your selling point is first, then give the example.

  *  **Ask Insightful Questions**  
Studies continually show that employers make a judgment about an applicant’s
interest in the job by whether or not the interviewee asks questions.

 **If you have further queries, please feel free to refer the following blog
posts:**

  * [ **How To Ace Group Interviews**](https://blog.boardinfinity.com/how-to-ace-group-interviews/)
  * [ **Body Language Tips For An Interview**](https://blog.boardinfinity.com/body-language-tips-for-an-interview/)
  * [ **Questions To Ask The Recruiter**](https://blog.boardinfinity.com/questions-to-ask-the-recruiter/)

 **Wish you the best with your future endeavors**


##########
I did something similar to [Luca Petty](/profile/Luca-Petty)’s answer, but my
experience wasn’t out of choice, but rather out of necessity, and I worked 10
- 12 hours a day for about 6 months, not 30 days.

 _I’ve worked for multiple agencies in senior roles in my career, and I won’t
be clarifying which agency I’..._


##########
You should have following skills before getting interviewed :-

  *  **Analytical Skills** : Understanding the market situation, prevailing trends, company’s requirements. At the same time capable of discovering own weak points and evaluate the results/effects of projects/policies and related implementation.
  *  **Communication Skills** : Both written and verbal influencing the interpersonal dealing and collaboration.
  *  **Flexibility & Adaptability**: Whether you are capable of accepting changes or not, and how much are you capable of adapting and adjusting to the new environment.
  *  **Initiative and Drive** : Whether you are courageous enough to take an initiate on your own and volunteer for your company and manager or will wait for being pushed to do a job.
  *  **Management Skills** : Whether you have leadership skills and can address and organize a team. Whether you are capable enough of commanding respect and inspiring others.
  *  **Planning Skills** : Accessing the surrounding, foresee the future circumstances and according develop relevant plans and strategies, keeping in mind the present and latent requirements, which will match the future demands and trends as well.
  *  **Problem-Solving Skills** : Apart from applying the previous and known solutions, you are expected to do your own brainstorming and come with new and effective solutions.
  *  **Teamwork Skills and Enthusiasm** : Collaborating and co-coordinating skills while working and
  *  **Technical Skills** : Knowledge of technologies and trends. At the same time you must have learning ability to facilitate the future/new technological applications adopted by the company.
  *  **Time and Work Management Skills** : Time management is the most basic requirement at any profile and department. Work management, meeting deadlines and delegating work.

Hope this will help.


##########
**Top 10 Skills Required to Crack a Job Interview**

To ace the [interview](http://bit.ly/qgWvsQ), you need to focus and work on
the top 10 skills’ categories, interviewers prefer and rate high:

  *  **Analytical Skills:** Understanding the market situation, prevailing trends, company’s requirements. At the same time capable of discovering own weak points and evaluate the results/effects of projects/policies and related implementation.
  * [ **Communication Skills:**](http://www.adroitnaukri.com/) **** Both written and verbal influencing the interpersonal dealing and collaboration.
  *  **Flexibility & Adaptability:** Whether you are capable of accepting changes or not, and how much are you capable of adapting and adjusting to the new environment.
  *  **Initiative and Drive:** Whether you are courageous enough to take an initiate on your own and volunteer for your company and manager or will wait for being pushed to do a job.
  *  **Management Skills:** Whether you have leadership skills and can address and organize a team. Whether you are capable enough of commanding respect and inspiring others.
  *  **Planning Skills:** Accessing the surrounding, foresee the future circumstances and according develop relevant plans and strategies, keeping in mind the present and latent requirements, which will match the future demands and trends as well.
  *  **Problem-Solving Skills:** Apart from applying the previous and known solutions, you are expected to do your own brainstorming and come with new and effective solutions.
  *  **Teamwork Skills and Enthusiasm:** Collaborating and co-coordinating skills while working and
  *  **Technical Skills:** Knowledge of technologies and trends. At the same time you must have learning ability to facilitate the future/new technological applications adopted by the company.
  *  **Time and Work Management Skills:** Time management is the most basic requirement at any profile and department. Work management, meeting deadlines and delegating work.


##########
**1.Convincing skills** – You should be able to convince the interviewer how
you are the best fit for the job. For this, you need to prepare a lot
evaluating your skills vis-à-vis the job profile

 **2\. Selling skills** \- Selling is one of the most important skills an
organization looks for in a candidate. Even if the current job profile that
you are applying for is not related to sales, interviewers still expect you to
have a sales orientation. That’s because, they are essentially hiring people
for the long term and as you progress in your career with them, sales related
goals will increasingly become part of the job profile in higher level
positions.

In a rapidly changing world where technology is disrupting all routine and
standardized jobs (yes, you will be competing with a Robot candidate for that
next job interview in the near future!), selling is one skill that cannot be
replaced by any technology. My reading is that most of the jobs of the future
will be in sales and marketing and advisory. So, it helps to align your
selling skills here.

3\. Good communication skills – Both oral and written

4\. Brevity – Ability to respond to questions and bring out the key elements
in a compelling and concise form. Long answers tend to get boring and puts off
the interviewer easily. So work on this aspect.

5\. Good presentation skills, articulation and clarity of thought

6\. Project management – If you have led or worked on projects in college or
in previous jobs, bring it up and market these stuffs during interviews.
Organizations have plenty of projects going on at the same time and your
project management skills can come handy.

7\. People management and leadership skills – Although this may not be
required for entry level jobs and lower level positions, it helps to showcase
in case you possess them. However, for higher level positions, this will be an
important job requirement.

8\. Technology skills – Basic understanding of MS office, word, excel, power
point etc. Here, I am assuming that you are not looking for a job in the IT
industry. Because if you are, then this will be right on top of the skill
pyramid and you would need a lot more IT skills and expertise to showcase.

If you are looking for a banking career and need some help on upgrading your
skills, you can refer to this book ‘Be a BankPro’ available on Amazon or
visit: [www.bankpro.co.in](http://www.bankpro.co.in/)

Wish you good luck.


##########
An interview is nothing but giving an over all impression about you. If you
well plan and prepare in advance,you can give an impressive interview. For
that you have to keep certain things in mind.

![](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-a78e8e9e8f6fef734c691d16604b60fb)

 **Self confidence.**

Lack of Self confidence is the main villain who plays a vital role in ending
most of the interviews in a catastrophic condition. [**Develop self
confidence**](https://www.simpliv.com/careercoaching/college-interviews-learn-
to-confidently-talk-about-yourself) consciously by confronting something you
dare not to face. Make a mock drill first then face the real.

 **Pleasing manners.**

A smiling face and elegant walk with polite and [**pleasing
mannerisms**](https://www.simpliv.com/careercoaching/job-interviews-ace-the-
interview-and-get-the-job-offer) are the indications of self confidence. The
way you first present yourself itself tells the interviewer 50% about you. So
enter by asking permission,wish them with a smiling face,sit like a king and
talk like a wise. Practice it until you perfectly do it.

 **Subject knowledge.**

You should have a sound subject knowledge about the post you are applied for.
Don’t give them the impression that there is no inhabitants in the upper floor
of your brain. So before hand prepare the possible questions they may ask.

 **The ability to communicate.**

Lack of the [**ability to
communicate**](https://www.simpliv.com/careercoaching/communication-skills-
for-job-interviews-any-public-speaking-practical-exercise) is the another
villain who demolish the dreams of the most people. So make sure that you are
fluent in the language in which you are being interviewed. You may have the
answer with in you but if could not use it effectively;what is the use?

 **Market yourself.**

It is your ability to make them feel that you will be an asset to the company
if selected. It can be achieved Only through the above mentioned points. You
should have [**a winner’s
mindset**](https://www.simpliv.com/careercoaching/winner-mind-set-for-
interview-job-interview-preparation-with-30-resume-template). Create a demand
for yourself by astonishing them with your ability.

Practice……….and practice……..again practice………

BEST OF LUCK


##########
Getting an interview is an achievement in itself. Only a small proportion of
applicants are selected for interview (often about 10%) so you have already
made a positive impression to have got to this stage! Many people have a fear
of interviews, so here are some tips to help you make the most of this
opportunity.


##########
  1. A confident, positive outlook - While this wouldn't exactly fit under the term “skills”, a confident and positive outlook are absolutely necessary to boost one's performance in an interview and beyond.
  2. Technical skills - This refers to the skill sets demanded from a prospective candidate, while a company hires someone for a particular position. In layman's terms, these refer to the specific qualification/knowledge/experience one needs to do the job.
  3. Communication skills - Any job demands good level of oral and written communication skills in at least two languages (as far as India is concerned), with English being one of them. It is reasonable to expect that a prospective candidate that a company is looking to hire is able to comfortably communicate their thoughts in a candid, understandable manner.
  4. Analytical skills and industry knowledge - No recruiter would be willing to rope in someone with zero knowledge about the industry in which the company operates, or is unable to analyse and give a possible solution to a job/business specific issue that might arise during regular operations of the company.

A candidate can develop all the above points (except the first one) by having
a thorough knowledge of the areas they qualified/majored in, reading news
bulletins and detailed articles about events happening in the area they chose
to work in, listening to debates and interviews of leaders in the industry,
etc. These would in turn help the candidate develop a positive and confident
outlook.

Wishing you good luck with your endeavors.


##########
