[Aptitude Questions and Answers](http://www.indiabix.com) India Bix

[CampusGate](http://campusgate.co.in) (If you are targeting to crack TCS
Aptitude)

Book: R.S. Aggarwal

Any Company in first round focuses on checking the Logical, Analytical, Verbal
Ability of a Student. You can practice India Bix, as many companies has a
record of directly asking the same questions present in India Bix And you will
yourself find the same when you give exams.

So My suggestion would be first of all learn the concepts from R.S. Aggarwal
Solve the solved problems in the book and practice a set of questions of same
topic from India Bix so you will get a good grip.

And Also you should be well preparing for Time Management. Because Generally
Companies in their first round checks your Time Management so they give you a
set of questions to solve in very less time.


##########
I can give a direct answer without any marketing gimmicks. Visit ([Buy Online
Test Series For Mock & Aptitude
Solutions)](http://www.placementseason.com/placement-test-patterns/) Mock
--test question papers for every major company in India is listed over here.
It is perhaps one of the only portals that provides adaptive test papers
similar to Aspiring Minds. And rme, I know this very well, as I am a teacher
as well as a Technical Writer at PlacementSeason. Need anymore convincing?
Feel free to write to me at
[aksar@placementseason.com](mailto:aksar@placementseason.com)


##########
Recently, there is a facebook page created by me and my team. The idea is to
provide relevant information related to placement prep through questions from
all the fields, interview experiences and techniques to prepare for the
different rounds of campus recruitment process.

[TnP Doctor](https://www.facebook.com/tnpdoctor/)

Go through the page for relevant questions on quants and interview experiences
which will definitely help you. Also, shoot us a message so that we can
respond your specific need.

Godspeed!!!

Kamlesh Chauhan


##########
